M 14. Chemistry IV. Lectures and quizzes. This is a course in elementary Physical Chemistry. 9 units; 4 lec. for 1 quarter.
1-813. M echanism. A general course; studies made of machines and the motions, velocities and actions of the component parts. Gearing, cams and lever problems made use of in connection with the laboratory equipm ent and kinem atic studies made of the mechanism trains involved therein.
208 AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD POLICY History and institutional development of agricultural policy. Price and income problems of American agriculture and alternative solutions. Prerequisite: 61 or Economics 12. Three hours.
245A-2458 -245C. Development of Social Work Practice Theory. Prerequisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Critical analysis of social work practice theories in historical, social and scientific contexts, with attention to how theory becomes modified through application to practice.
Geography II: North America An intensive study of North America in the light of the application of the principles of physical geography . The influence of geology, topography, climate and natural ' resources upon industrial , commercial and social development is carefully considered . Reference is frequently made to the teaching of geography in the elementary school. Prerequisite , Geography I, or equivalent. Five hours. Five units.
4 Introduction to Ethics Analysis of the principal problems and theories of ethics. Three hours.
120B. Syntax I. (4) Requisite: course 20. Course 120A is not requisite to 120B. Descriptive analysis of morphological and syntactic structures in natural languages; emphasis on insight into nature of such structures rather than linguistics formalization.
162. Speech Pathology. (3) I. Mr. Sheehan Recommended: courses 108, 168. A clinical approach to speech problems with emphasis on stuttering and neurological disorders and their treatment.
223 IMMUNOLOGY Analysis of the immune response with respect to structure and function of immunoglobulins, cytokinetics and immunocompetence, tolerance, ontogeny and phytogeny of adaptive immunity, immunogenetics of transplantation, hypersensitivity states, and theories of antibody formation. Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor. Four hours.
EDHE 208. School Health Programs. 3 Credits. Organization of the total school health program. Problems and administration in the area of school environment, health services, health education, and school-community relationship. Prerequisite: EDHE 046 or equivalent.
250 Environmental Facilities Design-Water (2-3) Design of water supply systems including source evaluation, transmission, distribution, water treatment plant design; equip ment selection; wells. Prerequisite: 151. Three hours.
155 Consumer Behavior Exploration and analysis of research evidence from marketing and behavioral science rele vant to a theory of consumer behavior. Emphasis also given to research methodologies. Prerequisite: 154. Three hours.
M176A. Structure of Japanese I. (4) (Same as Japanese CM122.) Lecture, three hours. Preparation: two years of Japanese. Requisite: Japanese 120. Discussion of many seemingly idiosyncratic characteristics of Japanese syntax and semantics in light of word-order typology and universal grammar, often in form of a contrastive analysis of Japanese and English.
73-495 Independent Study in Economics Fall or Spring: variable units The Independent Study course in economics allows the student to pursue his or her own research interests in any of a variety of topics in economics. A typical independent study course involves a semester long research project under the supervision of an appropriate faculty advisor. The nature and scope of the project are determined by the student and faculty advisor and may range from an indepth survey of the literature to a detailed theoretical or empirical analysis of the topic in question.
BSAD 302 - Business Economics
152. Topics in Contemporary Chinese Literature and Culture. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour; outside study, nine hours. Investigation of various topics in contemporary Chinese literature and culture, including politics and poetics of Chinese postmodernism, nativism, feminism, mass culture, and media.
240 Principles of Motor Learning and Human Performance. Nature of motor learning; factors affecting motor learning, (motivation, emotion, stress); concepts of transfer, retention; alternatives in teaching, coaching methodologies based upon ap plied principles in motor learning. Prereq uisites: 166 and EDSS 145 or 146. Three hours.
177. Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineering. This course fol lows that in theoretical hydraulics and deals with the practical application of the principles there taught to various lines of engineering work. It embraces the following subjects: Water Supply Including a determination of the quantity re quired, source of supply and quantity available, purification, stor age, and method of distribution. Sewerage Including the disposal of household waste for iso lated buildings, complete sewerage systems for cities and methods of sewerage disposal. Water Power Including the determination of the quantity of water available, and the construction of dams, canals, etc., for its utilization. Irrigation Including the various methods of impounding the water and applying it to the soil.
207. Armenian Intellectual History. (4) Lecture, three hours. Intellectual and cultural trends reected in Armenian literature, historiography, religious and philosophical thought.
82-234 Intermediate German for Reading Knowledge Spring: 9 units A sequel to 82-124, this course gives more extensive practice in reading technical German for science, engineering, humanities, and social science students. Prerequisite: 2 years of high school German, 82-122, or 82-124. 3 hrs.
287C. Topics in Economic Development. Designed for graduate students. Topics in monetary and exchange rate policy in developing countries. Students expected to develop analytical tools and underlying policy issues.
21,22 History of Science Survey of the history of the physical and biological sciences from antiquity to the present. Stresses science as an intellectual activity, within the contem porary context of philosophy, religion, and social organization. Three hours.
125. Semantics. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 120B. Survey of most important theoretical and descriptive claims about the nature of meaning.
82-321/-822 Fall: 9 units German Conversation and Composition or Spring: 9 units Intensive linguistic practice progressing from controlled patterns in speech and writing to free discussion and composition. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-222 or 82-232 or equivalent.
144 APPLIED NORMAL NUTRITION (2-2) Nutrition and the individual; food habits and the problems involved in food selection to promote good nutri tion. Prerequisite: 43. Three hours. Miss Williams and Miss McCarthy.
49 GENERAL TYPING Typing techniques and mastery of the keyboard to develop accuracy in typing skill for personal use. Open to all students except secretarial studies majors and business education teacher trainees. Two hours.
E-506. K in em at ic s. Graphical and analytical investigation of position, velocity and acceleration of moving parts of machinery; acceleration curves derived from displacement curves and vice versa. Prereq., E-21, E-41.
1-894. Factory Cost System s. Principles of accounting as applied to production; accumulation and recording of prime cost data and allocation of indirect expense by the various m ethods in common use; common forms of reports, orders and requisitions; methods of keeping factory accounts; finding selling costs; relation of the factory accounts to the general financial books. Connecting theoretical work with practical work in shops.
250A-250B. Seminars: Armenian Literature. (4-4) Seminar, three hours. Selected topics from various periods of Armenian literature. May be repeated for credit.
596. Directed Individual Study. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
120A. Phonology I. (4) Requisites: courses 20, 103. Introduction to phonological theory and analysis. Rules, representations, underlying forms, derivations. Justication of phonological analyses. Emphasis on practical skills with problem sets.
596. Directed Individual Study or Research. (2 to 12) Tutorial, to be arranged. Individual guided studies under direct faculty supervision. May not be applied toward degree course requirements. May be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
140. Linguistics in Relation to Language Teaching. (4) Requisites: courses 120A, 120B. Aspects of linguistics in relation to teaching of language, with particular focus on special problems entailed in teaching non-European languages.
E -9 4 5 . A l l ie d P r o c es se s. A study of the various graphic processes re lated to printing, including the methods of reproduction by relief, plano graphic and intaglio processes. Plant visits. Junior year, first semester, 1 hr. rec., 2 hrs. prep., 3 units. P ro fesso r G u sta fso n.
5. EnglishPractical English Composition; Themes; Read ing; Public Speaking; Spelling. Three hours,
BIOL 276 - Behavioral Ecology Adaptive signifcance of behavior in natural environments. Evolutionary theory applied to behavior and tesed with feld data. Prerequisite: BCOR 102 or Insructor permission. Credits: 3.00
1-504. O x y - A c e t y l e n e W e ld in g . Oxy-acetylene welding and cutting equipment, torch, tips, regulators, valves, gauges, hose and connections; care of equipment and gases, expansion and contraction of metals; preheating and reheating; fluxes and filling rods; brazing and hard soldering; lead burning; connecting torch and equipment with gas tanks and regulators, lighting torch; welding mild steel, cast iron, brazing malleable iron; welding small castings, including wheels with rim and spokes broken, also automobile parts; cutting steel, aluminum welding. Second semester; 3 hrs. shop, 3 units.
204 FAMILY ECONOMICS The consumer and the market. Use of credit, savings and investments, insurance and estate planning for the family. Pre requisite: Economics 12, H.M. 101. Three hours
E-650, E-6S1, E-652. Se m in ar. An assembly of students in mining and metallurgy, to discuss topics of joint technical interest, for presentation of in dividual papers, or to hear lectures by prominent metallurgists or mining engi neers of the district.
G L -6 . B i b l i o g r a p h y o f Sc ie n c e a n d T e c h n o l o g y . A study of scientific and technical literature, with emphasis upon specialized reference and bibliographic tools. Two credits. Fall semester.
G121, 122 ADVANCED COMPOSITION AND CONVERSATION. Three hours. I, II Training in the written and oral use of German, with special atten tion to the acquisition of a correct pronunciation, based on the study of phonetics. Recommended to those preparing to teach German. Prerequisite: 21, 22 or 101-102, and permission of the department.
C-135 and C-136. E nglish I. English composition; weekly themes; con ferences; study of the important types of literature. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
C260. Indo-European Comparative Mythology and Poetics. (4) Seminar, three hours. Preparation: ability to read original sources in at least one ancient IndoEuropean language. Comparison of major Indo-European mythological and poetic traditions and reconstruction of their common sources. Topics include divinities and their names; symbolic systems in social context; myths, folk narratives, belief systems; relations with other traditions; literary continuations of mythopoetic material.
C-243 and 244. Intermediate Span ish. Review of inflections and syntax; systematic study of the irregular verbs; reading and translation of short stories and easy plays; composition; conversation on the text read. Prereq., C-237 and C-238 or the equivalent. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
225 Organizations in Modern Society Examination of basic classical and contemporary theory and research on the human relations, internal structures, environments, types, and general properties of complex organizations and bureaucra cies. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
A-13 and A-14. H is t o r y o f A r c h i t e c t u r e . A continuation of A -ll and A-12. Prereq., A -ll and A-12.
387 SEMINAR IN LANGUAGE DISORDERS Identification, evaluation, and rehabilitation procedures for the preschool and school-age child with language disabilities. Prereqisite: 270. Three hours.
140, 141 ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD THEORY (3-0), (3-0) Study of basic laws and elementary applications of electromagnetic fields; electrostatics, magnetostatics, Faraday's Law, plane waves, transmission lines and wave guides. Prerequisite: 25 and 26, 140 for 141. Three hours.
5 CHEMISTRY COURSE FOR FOUNDRY FOREMEN (Night Only) Effect of various constituents silicon, sulphur, phosphorus, manganese, combined carbon, graphitic carbon, etc. on the properties of cast iron; methods of melting and testing iron, making malleable and chilled castings, steel castings, brass castings, etc.
25 Biography Readings in the history and criticism of biography, the role of the individual in history, and biograph ies of individuals. Three hours.
2. The Study of Dress. (3) II. (Credit B) Miss LYNCH Prerequisite: Home Economies IA. A study of the artistic qualities of dress design ; design , pattern, color , and weave of fabrics ; hygienic and economical standards in the selection and care of clothing.
Iature Study It Agricultural Aspect The movement in favor of the introduction of elementary agriculture into schools has spread very rapidly , and the demand for teachers is greater than the supply . In recognition of the value of such training, already proven in many states , one term of agricultural nature study is required. The object of the course is to give students a broad, sympathetic outlook upon this most fundamental occupation, and to prepare them for teaching its essentials in a practical way. So far as possible the work in class is of a practical nature . Each student is assigned a plot in the school garden , and in this are planted and cared for various vegetables and flowers. These plots serve as out-of-door laboratories in which are worked out, in practice and observation, the many problems connected with the successful growing of plants. In the lath house and greenhouse , recently constructed , practical instruction is given in seed sowing in "fiats," potting plants, and general plant propagation work. Trips along well-planted streets, past home grounds tastefully ornamented , and to the parks , furnish the data from which are made plans for suggested ornamentation of home , school , or park grounds. A text-book serves as a basis for the work of the course, and recitations are supplemented by assigned readings , special reports, etc. .Four hours per week for one term.
118. Food Economics (Household Science 1B). (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) Miss ALLEN , Miss JENHINS Prerequisite : Chemistry 10. Emphasis is placed on the classification , occurrence , and general properties of food stuffs ; the legal and sanitary aspects of food products handled in commerce; food values in relation to cost of material , preparation , and service of meals. Attention is given to the practical problems involved in the selection and service of food. inschool lunch rooms and cafeterias.
GKLT 391. Masters Thesis Research. 1-6 Credits.
GRK 205. Greek Philosophers. 3 Credits. Dialogues of Plato with attention to language and dialectical method; Aristotle, Xenophon or Presocratic philosophers may be read.
C-510. S o cial Psy c h o l o g y. The psychological analysis of social life from the point of view of the interrelationship between individual and group be havior. Topics include m otivation, language, imitation, suggestion, attitudes propaganda, rumor, fads, fashion, crowds, leadership, etc. Prereq., C-501 or C-671. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
246. Administration of Elementary Education . (2) I. Mr . Hoekett For teachers of experience who desire to qualify for the elementary school supervision or elementary school administration credential . Problems in organization and administration of the modern elementary school.
252 EXECUTIVE DECISION-MAKING Synthesis of the management and op eration of a firm in terms of production, marketing, personnel, and finance. The process of decision-making, planning and execution of policies. Prerequisite: 121, 143, and a course in finance, or consent of instructor. Three hours.
Mathematics V: Elementary Geometry A review of plane geometry, with special emphasis upon the correlation of algebra and geometry in beginning mathematics. Open to the same class of students as Mathematics I. Five hours. Five units.
217. Advanced Topics in Internet Research. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Designed for graduate students. Overview of Internet development history and fundamental principles underlying TCP/IP protocol design. Discussion of current research topics, including multicast routing protocols, multicast transport protocols (e.g., real-time, transport protocol, RTP, and SRM), support for integrated services, World Wide Web, multimedia applications on Internet. Fundamental issues in network protocol design and implementations.
301 READINGS IN FAMILY ECONOMICS Critical survey of the literature and recent research in family economics. Three or four hours
11A-11s. Shop Work. (2-2) Yr. (Credit B) Mr. Surma. Elementary woodwork , painting , finishing, and decorating.
297,298 Readings and Research
GRK 206. Greek Epic. 3 Credits. Reading in the Iliad and Odyssey. Problems of epic composition and language together with mythological and historical background.
1-913 and 1-914. P resswork. Type of presses, their regular functions; make-ready type form s; make-ready halftone and color forms; process color work; materials of the craft; embossing, per forating, cutting and scoring; mechanical feeders; folding machines and their operation ; estimating presswork and materials used in pressroom. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. shop, 3 units.
256 LITERATURE OF THE AMERICAN FRONTIER Frontier, local-color and regional writing in America from the eighteenth century to the First World War, including Parkman, Harte, Mark Twain, Garland and others. Lectures, discussions and reports. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours.
287B. Economic Development in East Asia. Recent economic history of East Asia, focusing on postwar development of Japan, Korea, and China. Emphasis on role of international investment and trade, especially with the U.S., in areas economic development.
20A-20a . Printing . (3-3) Yr, (Credit B ) Mr. BaooKwAY A course for teachers dealing with the principles , maintenance, and operation of the school print shop. Problems and practice in job printing and newspaper make -up will be given . Type and equipment will be studied.
C-392. E conomic P roblems. A survey of the various problems con fronting the nation; agricultural, financial, trade and transportation, labor, immigration, with particular reference to their economic and social aspects. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
A-908. Life Modeling. A continuation of A-907.
1-898. Salesm anship. The strategy underlying advertising and selling; the tactical problems in advertising; the tactical problems in selling; analysis of functions of salesman, salesmanship, advertising agency.
281, 282 POULTRY SCIENCE SEMINAR A topical seminar designed for all students with an interest in current trends in the poultry industry. Required of poultry seniors. Prerequisite: 1. One hour.
238 MODERN DRAMA European and American plays which represent the principal trends in the dramatic renaissance of the late nineteenth and the twentieth centuries. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours.
176 PLANT ORGANIZATION (2-6) Analysis of plant requirements as to location, layout and materials handling; plant services and maintenance. Pre requisite: junior or senior standing. Four hours.
54-251,252 Fall: 4 units Light Design I Spring: 4 units Basic theories of stage lighting approached from a technical and an aesthetic viewpoint, leading to the practical planning of light plots for individual plays.
BSAD 268 - Cos Accounting Accounting for inventory valuation and income determination, nonroutine decisions, policy making and long-range planning. Prerequisites: BSAD 61, junior sanding. Credits: 3.00
99. Special Studies in Linguistics. (2 to 4) Supervised research or training. May be repeated for credit.
C-542. Continuation of C-541. Freshman year, second semester; 3 hrs., 3 units.
5 4 -3 3 1 ,3 3 2 Fall: 6 units Scene Design Section B Spring: 6 units Deals with basic design techniques; groundplans, rough models, basic drawing skills with a concentration on the design process and the director designer relationship.
1 Se c r e t a r ia l C o u r s e This course is planned to fit women for positions as private secre taries, confidential clerks, registrars, record and filing experts, and for places where a thorough training in English, economics, business methods, commercial law, records, filing, card indexing, book-keeping, and similar subjects will make their services of value.
1-514. A i r C o n d itio n in g . Ventilation, humidity; equipment; flow of air in ducts; blast coils and radiators; temperature regula tion; fans; specifications; design and estimating of hot water, steam, vapor heating and ventilating systems. Second year, first semester; 2 hrs. lec., 3 hrs. shop, 8 units.
German II Advanced grammar and composition (Harris 's German Composition), systematic exercises in sight translation and conversation , and the careful study of several classics : some work of Storm , Preytag , Keller, or Grillparzer , and a work of . Goethe , or Leasing , and Schiller 's Wilhelm Tell, Jungfrau von Orleans , or Maria Stuart. Three hours ,
216 TEACHING ADULTS (1-2) Problems of organization and of teaching classes in home economics to meet the needs of adults; supervised experience in techniques of teaching adults. Prerequisite: 165; and education 145-146 or agricultural education 104, or equivalent. Two hours.
197, 198 SENIOR RESEARCH Work on a research problem under the direc tion of a qualified staff member. Findings submitted in written form as prescribed by the department. Prerequisite: senior standing. Three hours. The
Harmony II Supertonic; submediant and mediant harmony; chromatic chords; augmented sixth chords. Analysis, harmonization of melodies and original composition continued. Five hours. Five units.
GE599 Nuclear Reactor Analysis First semester, 9 units The equations of neutron transport and neutron slowing down are developed. These equations are applied to problems of determining the spatial and energy distributions of neutrons in non-multiplying and multiplying media. Also treated is the multiplication constant for a homogeneous and/or a heterogeneous system, including the evaluation of the thermal utilization, resonance escape probability, fast effects, and leakages. Other special topics include reactor dynamics, control rod calculations, burnup and conversion, and temperature coefficients of reactivity. Prereq., GS467, or S445, S446; S260. 3 hrs. rec.
140A-140B-140C. Readings in Classical Chinese Literature. (4-4-4) Readings/discussion, three hours; outside study, nine hours. Requisite: course 110C. Readings and discussion of works of classical Chinese literature. 140A. Poetry; 140B. Prose; 140C. Fiction.
GRNS 390. Masters Project. 1-3 Credits. Self-designed clinical paper or innovative production pertinent to advanced nursing practice. Prereequisites: GRNS 321, GRNS 322, GRNS 323, GRNS 324; approval of project committee. Pre/ Co-requisite: Comprehensive Exam (completed prior to project presentation).
C-543 and C-544. P h ysical Education II. Advanced work in gymnastics; folk dancing; athletics. Sophomore year, first and second semesters; 3 hrs., 3 units.
E-121. A dvanced Inorganic Ch em istry. A continuation of course E-107, with especial emphasis on detailed study of properties of elements and com pounds in their relation to the classification afforded by Mendeljeeffs Periodic System. Prereq., E-108.
155 DIRECTED PRACTICE TEACHING IN VOCATIONAL AGRICULTURE Ten weeks of practice teaching in high school departments of vocational agriculture under guidance of experienced teachers and the teacher trainer. One week for home visits to supervised farming programs during the summer, and the first week of high school. Prerequisite: 251 and 253 or departmental permission. Eight hours.
150B. Traditional Narrative and Drama. (4) Lecture, three hours; outside study, nine hours. Readings in English translation from narrative and dramatic writings of traditional China, with emphasis on self and society, growth of ctionality, subjectivity, and gender representation.
English IX: Nineteenth Century Prose Careful reading of several essays chosen from Carlyle, Arnold, Froude, Pater, Newman, or other representative essayists, for interpretation of thought and appreciation of literary qualities. Five hours. Five units.
287A-287Z. Topics in Development Economics. (4 each) Lecture, three hours. Current research in development economics. Content varies. Courses in this sequence not ordinarily given every year.
C-485. F e d e r a l G o v e r n m e n t. A study of the organization and operation of the Federal Government; powers of Congress, of the President, of the Judiciary, and of independent commissions. Discussion of constitutional ques tions. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
A -797. R o t e S o n g s . Rote songs for kindergartens and primary grades studied with regard to their appropriateness to the voice of the child, the mind of the child, and as to their musical workmanship and content; methods of pre senting rote songs and of treating monotones.
174. M aterials. In this course the student is given further instruction, both in the class room and in the laboratory, along particular lines pertaining to his special branch of engineering work.
C-541. P h y sical Education I. Swimming, gymnastics, games and simple folk dances, with special corrective exercises for students for whom the regular work is considered unsuitable. This work is carried on out of doors during the fall and spring of the year, special emphasis being placed on spori:s (field hockey, volley ball, baseball). Freshman year, first semester; 2 hrs., 2 units.
7 6 -4 4 1 C h a u ce r Fall o r S p rin g : 9 u n its Geoffrey Chaucer is som etimes thought of as the author of universal, timeless fictions containing "God's plenty" (in Dryden's famous phrase). This course, however, will stress the ways in which Chaucer's fictions are situated within specific, but complex and fluid, 14thcentury political, social, and religious controversies. We will read The Canterbury Tales and Troy/us and Criseyde in Middle English (which Is not hard to learn, but fun to know), and look at other representations of medieval English culture as it saw itself and as we see It from a 20th-century vantage point.
201A-201B. Epidemiologic Methods I, II. (6-6) Lecture, four hours; discussion, two hours; outside study, 12 hours. Preparation: at least two upper division biology or social sciences courses. Recommended preparation: course 100 or 200. Requisites: Biostatistics 100A, 100B. Comprehensive coverage of concepts, principles, and methods in epidemiology, with emphasis on study design, statistical analysis, and causal inference. Theoretical and quantitative emphasis, focusing on investigation of disease etiology and other causal relationships in public health.
240. Seminar: Arab Historians and Geographers. (4) Seminar, three hours. Selected readings from works of major historians, geographers, and travelers.
225A-2258 -225C. Social Welfare Systems. Prerequisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Analysis of theories of organizational behavior affecting social welfare systems (including supranational systems transcending national boundaries), their directions, goals, values, and relationships to social work. Application of organizational theory to planning, organizing, and administering welfare agencies will be stressed.
75. E l e c t r i c i t y a n d M a g n e t is m . T his course is given to all first year students and its aim is to train the student in funda m ental principles and at the same tim e place him in a position to decide whether or not he should specialize in E lectrical Engineering Practice.
572. Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineering This course fol lows that in theoretical hydraulics and deals with the practical application of the principles there taught to various lines of engi neering work. It embraces the following subjects: W ater Supply Including a determination of the quantity re quired, available sources of supply, the collection, storage, purifica tion and distribution of water for domestic and other uses. Sewage Including the collection, transportation and disposal of domestic sewage and other municipal wastes. Problems con nected with water power and irrigation projects will be discussed as fully as time will permit.
GE-655a, b (1st and 2nd sem.). Metallurgical Problems. Individual problems including laboratory, library, or design work with comprehensive report on some specific phase of work in modern metallurgy. Prereq. and units to depend on problem.
82-198 Modern Languages Research Training Course Fall/Spring: 9 units This one-semester research internship is open to second semester freshmen and to sophomores with a 3.0 QPA or by petition. The intention of this internship is to involve students in a faculty research project in its early stages. The Department secretary maintains a listing of participating faculty and the current projects on which they are willing to supervise student interns. The general interests of Modern Languages faculty include three broad categories: second language acquisition, cultural studies and the development of innovative multi-media applications to language teaching. It is intended that students carry out a piece of individual research which will require about 10 hours per week. They will be expected to produce a final report. Weekly meetings with the supervising faculty member will be arranged. Students may take this seminar only once.
M-465. L abor Problems. Labor legislation; social insurance; employers welfare work; women in industry; trade unionism in the United States. Re quired for Social Work. Senior year, first semester; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
C*-22. V ector A nalysis. Vectors and vector fields, scalar and vector products, gradient, curl, divergence, and Stokes theorems with applications.
Chorus Conducting The use of the baton with grade. and- high school choruses and glee clubs. One hour. One unit.
E*-139. In o rg a n ic C h em istry. A comparative study of the elements and their more important compounds, based on atomic structure and modern valence theory. Prereq., E-105. Chem istry. 3 hrs. lec. and rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
252 Industrial Hygiene (3-2) Industrial hygiene prob lems; effects of pollutants on health; threshold limit values; emphasis on the engineering evaluation of hazard and control techniques. Prerequisites: Chemistry 5, Physics 25. Three hours.
E-128. Electrochemistry. Fundamentals of electrochemical systems and reactions, electrolysis, mechanism and electrolytic and metallic conduction, Fara days laws, chemical and electrical energy relationships from the thermodynamic standpoint, current and energy efficiencies, electrode potentials and their de termination, endoelectric and exoelectric systems, decomposition and deposition, voltages, polarization, overvoltage and overvoltage phenomena; industrial elec trochemical processes and products, such as hypochlorites, chlorates, caustic soda and chlorine, electrolytic hydrogen and oxygen, metal refining electroplating; primary and storage batteries, electric furnace processes and products, such as metallic sodium, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, carbide of calcium, graphite, alundum, carborundum, phosphorus, carbon disulphide. Solution of problems
8A-8B. Shop Work. (2-2) Yr. (Credit A, B) Mr. Satz Lecture , Tu, 12, and five hours laboratory. Pattern making and foundry practice.
C-347. N ineteenth C entury H istory and C-348. Studies in C o n tem porary H istory. A comprehensive survey of the history and background, as well as the economic, geographic and other aspects of European international relations from 1870 to the present. Studies of nationalism, territorial conflicts, imperialism, militarism and armaments, economic problems of international relations, problems of diplomacy and international organization. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
A-225 and A-226. Voice and Speech III. The study of foreign and regional dialects for character impersonation; constant checking of the voice and speech habits of the individual.
165. S t r u ctu r es. U nder this heading are taken up for class room discussion the methods of making beams, columns and ties from the raw structural materials, wood, wrought iron, steel, cast iron and cast steel. Considerable attention is devoted to shop pro cesses. N ext is considered the combination of these elements to form such simple structures as buildings, bridges, viaducts and cranes. In the draw ing room, strain sheets, general and detail plans, bills of material and estimates are prepared for various structures.
A-223 and A-224. Voice and Speech II. More advanced study of English pronunciation and into nation; emphasis on the correction of the students voice and provincialisms; training in vocal characteri zation; analysis of recordings of well-known actors and speakers; practice in presentation of various forms of literature the story, ballad, lyric, sonnet, ode, essay, oration, and monologue.
218. Advanced Computer Networks. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisites: courses 112, 118. Review of seven-layer ISO-OSI model. High-speed networks: LANs, MANs, ATM. Flow and congestion control; bandwidth allocation. Internetting.
156 Current Marketing Developments Analysis of both present and future and practice. Topics include social changes, functional and in stitutional marketing system changes. Individual research pro jects required. Prerequisite: 154. Three hours.
232 History of the German Language Historical lin guistic development of the German language from earliest times to the present. No knowledge of the older stages of the language is presupposed or required. Prerequisite: 121, 122 or equivalent. Three hours. Mieder.
73-410 The Economics of Business Cycles Intermittent: 9 units The purpose of this course is to educate the student in modern business cycle theory. The first part of the course surveys the empirical regularities which comprise fluctuations in aggregate economic activity which economists have labeled business cycles. The second part of the course discusses the existing macroeconomic models which students have learned in intermediate macroeco nomics, while the third part of the course examines the policy implications of these models and the inadequacies of the models as economic explanations of cycles. The final part of the course discusses rational expectations models of the business cycle in considerable detail. The empirical implications of these new models are examined, and their policy implications are assessed. Prerequisites: 73-250 and 73-300.
201. Computer Science Seminar. (2) (Formerly numbered 201A-201B-201C.) Seminar, four hours; outside study, two hours. Designed for graduate computer science students. Seminars on current research topics in computer science.
French II Continuation of preceding course. Five hours. Five units.
252 PLANT BIOCHEMISTRY The composition, energy utilization, and meta bolism of plant cells with emphasis on the leaf. Special topics include the chem istry and action of growth substances and herbicides, the origin of life, and com parative biochemistry of plant and animal cells. Prerequisite: 172 or Med. Biochem. 201 and departmental permission. Three hours. Dr. Racusen. Alternate
82-541 Special Topics: Spanish Fall: Variable units Restricted to language majors who wish to go beyond the regular offering in Spanish. Group or individual study in a subject area approved by the instructor. Prerequisite: Consent of the instructor and a 400-level course.
Music III Elementary theory. Terminology. 'Five hours. Three units..
391 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
1 GENERAL POULTRY SCIENCE (2-2) Principles of poultry science and their application to the poultry industry. Three hours.
131. European Archaeology from the Neolithic to Bronze Age. (4) Lecture, four hours. Survey of European cultures from beginning of food-producing economy in the 7th millennium B.C. to beginning of Bronze Age in the 3rd millennium B.C.
18 CREATIVE WRITING Writing short stories, novels, poetry, plays, and imaginative essays. Instruction is guided by the particular needs and talents of the students. Prerequisite: 1-2. Three hours.
599. Ph.D. Dissertation Research and Preparation. (2 to 8)
E-53 and E-54. Same as E-Sl and E-S2. Physics, Junior year, first and second semesters. M r. H ower.
250A--260B . History of Education . Seminar . (2-2) Yr . Mr. Wooton Prerequisite : courses 101 and 102, or 201 and 202, or their equivalent. Limited to candidates for advanced degrees. Specialized studies in the history of education.
241 Seminar in Physical Education and Athletics. Examination and analysis of con temporary issues and trends in physical education and athletics not especially ap propriate within the boundaries of an ex isting course. Prerequisite: Twelve hours in physical education and related areas. Variable credit (two-four hours).
210. History of the Armenian Language. (4) Lecture, three hours. Development of the Armenian language in its various stages: classical, middle, and modern.
Harmony I Intervals, scales, chord construction; different species of seventh and ninth chords; chord relation in cadence. Bytones; sub-tonic and subdominant harmony; melody writing; keyboard work; harmonization of. melodies ; analysis. Five- hours. Five units.
256 SATIRE Selections from Horace and Persius; Juvenal, Satires, I, III, X. Development of this literary form. Prerequisite: 203, 204 or concurrent enroll ment. Three hours.
253 AMERICAN COLONIAL LITERATURE Intellectual and literary origins, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, of American culture. Works of Edwards, Taylor, Franklin, Woolman, Hamilton and Jefferson. Lectures, discus sions, oral and written reports. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours.
C-486. St a t e a n d L o cal G o v e r n m e n t. . A study of the structure and operation of state, county, city, and district governments with some attention to the problems of local government. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs prep., 9 units.
Mathematics VI: (Same as Bookkeeping I) The purpose of this course is to develop the double entry principle, including business and financial statements . The student is taught the value of accuracy and familiarized with ordinary commercial papers. This course corresponds to the work commonly offered in seventh and eighth grades and is open to general students. Three hours. Three units. THE DEPARTMENT OF MODERN LANGUAGES Miss HAuDY
A-4. H istory of F urniture. II. Period furniture and interiors. Sophomore year, second semester; 1 hr. lec., 3 hrs. lab., 2 hrs. prep., 6 units.
221 A. Social Welfare Policy and Services I. (1/2 course) Nature, roles and history of welfare institutions in different societies; applicable social system theory with special reference to values as seen by different components of the welfare system; theory and research about needs met and not met, about various welfare policies and organizational forms, and about social change to prevent needs.
156A- 1568. Administrative Law. (2-2) Yr. (Credit A, B) Prerequisite : junior standing . Professor HA=s The rights , duties , and liabilities of public officers; relief against administrative action ; extraordinary legal remedies ; jurisdiction, conclusiveness , and judicial control ; legal principles and tendencies in the development of public administration.
1A. Elementary Modern Chinese for Advanced Beginners. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours; outside study, seven hours. Preparation: ability to speak and understand Mandarin or other Chinese dialects at elementary levels. Designed for students who already have certain listening and speaking skills in Mandarin or other Chinese dialects at elementary levels. Training in all four basic language skills (speaking, listening, reading, and writing). Students who complete courses 1A and 2A fulll one year of foreign language requirement. P/NP or letter grading.
C -344. C o n tem po ra ry C iv iliz a t io n . A course for reading and dis cussion along lines of recent thought and activity. Material presented by members of the Department of History. Open to upper-classmen of all col leges who have passed a preliminary historical survey in college. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. P ro fesso r D e m a r e s t; D r . G r eg g.
82-413 Offered intermittently: Contemporary French Novel 9 units Selected novels of Proust, Gide, Malraux, and others. The con cept of "le Nouveau Roman" and its literary manifestations. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-302 or equivalent.
133. Dance Recital . (3) II. Miss Deane Prerequisite : course 33A or 4 (Advanced Dance Fundamentals). Development of dances for a recital program . Production work on sets and costumes . Participation in dance recital.
102. Special Topics in European Studies. (4) Discussion, three hours; outside study, nine hours. Variable topics. May be repeated for credit.
258. Critical Problems in Social Welfare. Prerequisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Concerned with current problems in the field of social welfare. Specific topics to be discussed will vary depending upon the research and educational interests and needs of the class. May be repeated for credit. M275. Family Process: Psychological and Social Perspectives on the Family. (Same as Psychology M275.) This course reviews various theoretical perspectives applicable to the analysis of family structure and dynamics. Critical issues in the application of family constructs to clinical problems will receive particular attention.
GRNS 335. Adv Pathophysiology. 3 Credits. In-depth examination of the biological and physical manifestations of disease as they correlate with pathophysiology to guide clinical decision making of the APRN and CNL. Prerequisites: RN license or completion of DEPN. Pre/Co-requisite: GRNS 404.
157. Rural School Supervision . (3) II. (Credit B) M W F, 11. Prerequisite: Education 156. Associate Professor EBY
41, 42 COMPARATIVE VERTEBRATE ANATOMY (2-4) Survey of Phylum Chordata; outline of basic vertebrate body plan; functional anatomy and phylogeny of the organ systems of vertebrates, beginning with an agnathan and concluding with a mammal. Prerequisite: 1; 41 for 42. Four hours.
27, 28 Ideas in the Western Tradition: Integrated Humanities Great books of Western civilization in their historical setting. First semester: Greece and Rome. Second semester: Renaissance to Existentialism. Prerequisites: Con current enrollment in English 27, 28 and Religion 27, 28. Con current enrollment in integrated Humanities Program. Three hours.
E-124. Industrial Ch em istry. Study of methods of purification of chemi cals and chemical products on a large scale; manufacture of common acids, alkalies, and salts; glass manufacture; clay industries; fermentation industries; starch, glucose, and sugar; coal-tar products and synthetic dyestuffs; animal and vegetable oils; petroleum products; paints and pigments; varnish manufacture; the rubber industry, cellulose industries. Prereq., E-110, E-112, E-116.
215. Business Letters and Forms. Business letters: their place in the development of sale, advantages, limitations, functions, scope, preparation for writing, how to write, opening paragraphs, presenting propositions and arguments, anticipating objections, urg ing to action, how to close, revision and review, utilization in spe cial departments, the follow-up, technique. Business Forms: Checks, drafts, and other banking forms; bankers and commercial bills, collateral notes, foreign credit instru ments ; warehouse receipts, railroad and express forms ; invoices, vouchers, statements of account, account-sales, consignments, and other accounting forms ; bonds and stock certificates ; mortgages, deeds, contracts, leases ; insurance forms, etc. : in short, the prin cipal instruments used in financing, accounting for, transporting, and safeguarding goods and property.
2 WORLD FOOD AND AGRICULTURE (2-2) Historical development and pat tern of agriculture to the present. Emphasis on the adjustment of agriculture to natural and economic phenomena. Present pattern of crop and livestock production, trade, and consumption in Vermont, the United States, and the world. Three hours.
Geography III: Europe Emphasis is 'placed upon the countries of western Europe. The responses which man has made to . his geographic environment receive much attention . The part which Europe plays in world activities. Prerequisite , same as for Geography H. Five hours. Five -units.
197, 198 SENIOR RESEARCH Work on a research problem under the direc tion of a qualified staff member. Findings submitted in written form as pre scribed by the department. Prerequisite: senior standing. Three hours.
GRNS 327. Adv Topics in Hlth Informatics. 3 Credits. This course provides an overview of informatics, the transformation of data into information, knowledge, decisions and actions to improve outcomes. This course offers the student an opportunity to study advanced topics in health informatics. Pre/Co-requisites: GRNS 322, GRNS 400.
A -5 and A - 6 . G e n e r a l H is t o r y o f t h e A r t s . Development and relation of the fine arts in general: architecture, painting, music, drama and sculpture.
211 GENETICS OF MICROORGANISMS Studies of mutation,, genetic information transfer, fine structure of the gene, cytoplasmic inheritance, and lysogeny in fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Prerequisite.\ permission of the In structor. Three hours.
134 Canadian-U.S. Business Relations A study of the Canadian-U.S. bilateral relationship as it affects interna tional business, emphasizing trade, investment, energy, and industrial development policies. Prerequisites: Economics 11, 12; junior standing. Three hours.
C 201 abc. German I. Beginning course covering the grammat ical structure of the language, emphasizing reading and translation, and giving some drill in speaking and writing simple German. An ele mentary reader of non-technical nature is introduced as early as possible and supplements the work of the grammar. Frequent, short review tests. Freshman year; three quarters; three hours a week in first and second quarters; four hours in third.
597. Preparation for M.S. Comprehensive Examination or Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations. (2 to 12) Tutorial, to be arranged. Individual study for M.S. comprehensive examination or Ph.D. qualifying examinations.
48 ELEMENTARY NUTRITION AND FOOD PREPARATION (3-2) For pre clinical nursing students only. Not for college credit.
M 12 c. Chemistry lie. This is a continuation of lib, and is devoted entirely to organic compounds. 10 units; 3 lec.; 5 hrs. lab. for 1 quarter.
104 LEADERSHIP TRAINING AND ORGANIZATION METHODS (2-2) Methods and techniques by which officers, group members and administrators may in crease the effectiveness of organizations. Practice in applying the methods treated. Prerequisite: junior standing, or departmental permission. Three hours. Dr. Gaylord.
173. M a te r ia l s.
C-501. I n tr o d u c to r y Psy c h o l o g y. A survey of the scientific approach to human nature, which considers mans adjustment to his environment, the nature of experience, and the organization of personality. Offered each semes ter; 1 hr. lec., 2 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
165 METHODS OF TEACHING Methods of teaching homemaking in junior and senior high schools, and of general administration of homemaking depart ments in secondary schools. Prerequisite: 115, Psychology 1. Three hours
GRK 203. Greek Historians. 3 Credits. Thucydides, Books I and II; selections from Herodotus and Xenophons Hellenica.
C111. Intonation. (4) Lecture, two hours; laboratory, two hours. Requisites: courses 20, 103, 120A or 120B. Recommended: course 104/204. Survey of intonational theory for English and other languages, with particular emphasis on phonological models of intonation. Laboratory equipment used for recording and analyzing intonation, and students learn to transcribe intonational elements.
303 SPECIAL PROBLEMS IN MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY Supervised investigations in pathogenic microbiology. Credit as arranged.
82-451 Introduction to Latin American Offered intermittently: Literature and Culture 9 units A sociocritical approach to the study of Latin American literature, and a survey of representative authors considered in the context of the cultural heritage of Latin America. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-342 or equivalent.
73-358 Economics of the Environment and Natural Resources Fall or Spring: 9 units The economic theory of environmental degradation and public policies designed to deal with it; the theory of renewable and nonrenewable resources including their pricing and allocation over time. Implications for the intermediate term future (25 to 50 years hence) are modeled. 3 hours recitation. Prerequisite: 73-250.
258 Environmental Facilities Design - Air~(
E-117. P h y s ic a l C h e m istry . G ases: laws and deviations, kinetic theory and laws of therm odynam ics. Liquids: critical state, m olecular weights, optical refractivity, viscosity, and surface tension. Solutions: osm otic pres sure, vapor pressure, distillation of m ixtures. Colloids and flotation process. Phase rule with m etallurgical applications. T h erm och em istry: heats of form ation, solution, neutralization. M ass law ; chem ical kinetics with problems in blast furnace equilibrium ; electrolytic dissociation; electrolysis; cond uctivity; m igration ratios; dilution laws and electrom otive force. Prereq., E-105 or E-107. 3 hrs. lec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. D r. S e ltz .
H-13 and H-14. Physical Education. Continuation of work given in freshman year. Both H-13 and H-14 are offered each semester; 3 hrs., 3 units each semester.
104A-104B-104C. Elementary Modern Eastern Armenian. (4-4-4) Course 104A is requisite to 104B, which is requisite to 104C. Designed for students with little or no previous knowledge of Eastern Armenian, ofcial idiom of Republic of Armenia. Introduction to basics of grammar and conversation.
C-322. A m e r i c a n G o v e r n m e n t a n d P o l i t i c s . A study of the forms and functions of American government with some attention to general governments as well. National, state and municipal government in the United States will be studied, concluding with an examination of the organization of political parties. Elective for Seniors. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
281C. International Economics. (4) Lecture, three hours. Theoretical and empirical analysis of interrelation between ows of capital, people, and goods.
308 EXPERIMENTAL TECHNIQUES IN NUTRITION Methods of con ducting research in nutrition with the various animal species including hu mans. Physical, physiological and biochemical aspects considered. Experi mental design and analyses. Prerequisite: a 200 level course in nutrition and in bio-chemistry. Two hours.
242 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Subject matter, problems, and issues of union-management relationships. Structure and functions of collective bargain ing in the economy. The grievance process and arbitration. Laws of collective bargaining. Prerequisite: 141. Three hours
I-2 WORLD ECONOMIC GEOGRAPHY Geography as a basis for economic development; importance of resources to production, exchange, consumption, population, and national economies. Three hours.
Geography V : South America The influence of tropical and temperate climates upon the distribution. of population and the development of the continent. The nature and the exploitation of the natural resources . Relation of the Panama Canal and the Transandean Railway to commerce. Prerequisite , same as for Geography II. Five hours. Five units.
A-1047 and A-1048. F olk D ancing I. Twenty-five English folk dances, with special emphasis on the principles of rhythm and design in group dances.
15 The Birth of Europe Survey of history of Western Europe from the late Roman Empire to the stabilization of Medieval Civilization. Three hours.
1. Elementary Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours.
253 MICROBIAL BIOCHEMISTRY (2-3) The chemical composition, energy utilization and metabolism of microbial cells. Prerequisite: 172 or Medical Bio chemistry 201, Botany 116; and departmental permission. Three hours. Dr.
16 EXPOSITORY WRITING Writing and analysis of expository essays. Pre requisite: 1-2. Three hours. I
232B. Semantics of Programming Languages. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisites: courses 131, 181. Denotational semantics of programming languages. Notation and foundations. Expressions, commands, declarations, and other constructs. Environments, stores, and continuations. Examples. Relations between semantic denitions of programming languages. Applications of current research interest.
132. European Archaeology: Bronze Age. (4) Requisite: course 131. Survey of European cultures from around 3000 B.C. to the period of destruction of the Mycenaean culture about 1200 B.C. Aegean area and rest of Europe.
219. Educational Diagnosis . (2) H. Mr. Williams Prerequisite : previous work in educational measurement including statistical methods. Study of the development and application of educational measurement and diagnostic procedures. Exploration of standard literature and current research in measurement . Methods of organizing , presenting , and evaluating measurement projects.
BSAD 282 - Security Val & Portfolio Mgmt Examination of theories and evidence on the invesment decision process including operations of equity securities markets, market efciency, fnancial asset prices, and portfolio management. Prerequisites or Corequisites: BSAD 180. Credits: 3.00
BIOL 296 - Advanced Special Topics See Schedule of Courses for specifc titles. Credits: 4.00
73-372 International Money and Finance Fall or Spring: 9 units This course is devoted to economic analysis of exchange rate behavior, balance of payments adjustments, the financing of payments imbalances, and related topics in the areas of international monetary, macro, and financial economics. A simple but flexible model of exchange rate determination will be formulated and tested empirically. Considerable emphasis will be given to issues concerning alternative monetary arrangements such as fixed vs. flexible exchange rates, currency unions, and commodity-money standards. Some historical consider ation of the pre-1914 gold standard and the 1945-1971 Bretton Woods system will be included, as well as institutional discussion of the present (and prospec tive) European Monetary System. Prerequisites: 73-250 and 73-300.
C*-21. D iffe r e n tia l Equations. Ordinary and partial differential equations with applications. Prereq., C-4. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
104B. Advanced Infantry Training. (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) Tu Th, 11. Assistant Professor TEnnErr, Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course; instruction in combat principles of the rifle squad, section , platoon , and company , the service company and the solving of practical and map problems. The basic B. O. T. C. camp may be attended by students who are members of the basic course at the completion of either the first or the second year . Attendance is voluntary . Students who satisfactorily complete a course in a Reserve Officers' Training Corps or a military training summer camp conducted by the United States Government may receive credit toward graduation at the rate of one-half (;) unit per week for each course so completed. But it is provided: (a) that no credit thus earned in or after 1925 shall excuse a student from the courses in military science and tactics required of all male undergraduates during their freshman and sophomore years, and (b) that the total credit thus earned by any student shall not exceed six (6 ) units. t Each student must enroll for one hour of bade course class instruction.
73-479 Issues in Economic Analysis and Policy Fall or Spring: 9 units The subject matter of this course changes from year to year. Topics are chosen to illustrate the application of recent advances in economic analysis or to focus on contemporary policy problems. The format of the course typically involves both lecture sessions and sessions in which the discussion is led by students. Prerequisites: 73-250. Other prerequisites may be specified by the instructor.
143 Philosophy of Law II (Same as Political Science 124.) Problems of liberty, e.g. freedom of expression, privacy, paternalism; scope and limits of the criminal law; philosophy of punishment; selected problems in criminal justice, e.g. plea bargaining; preventive detention. Prerequisite: 1, 3,or 4 or Poli tical Science 31. Three hours.
4 ELECTRIC WIRING (Day and Night) Tools and methods of handling; joints; running wires and making connections; installation of arc and incandescent lamps of all kinds; eredion of dynamos and switchboards; placing and connecting motors, transformers and meters; primary and secondary batteries; bells, annunciators, burglar and fire alarms; interior telephones, etc.
257 Physiology of the Plant Cell (3-2) Detailed study of photosynthesis, plant cell membrane function, and plant cell growth. Prerequisites: 104, Chemistry 141, 142 or Chemistry 42, Physics 11, 12 or 31, 42. Four hours.
C135. Neurolinguistics. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 1 or 20, and C130. Examination of relationship between brain, language, and linguistic theory, with evidence presented from atypical language development and language disorders in the mature brain. Topics include methodologies to investigate normal and atypical hemispheric specialization for language and children and adults with acquired and/or congenital language disorders.
5 HOUSE PAINTINGHARDWOOD FINISHING AND GRAINING (Night Only) Brushes, methods of caring for and methods of handling; application of paint, exterior work; preparing surfaces ; priming coat, second and third coat; interior work ; walls, ceilings and plaster surfaces ; kalsomining and tinting ; putty and puttying; glazing; sand paper; mixing paint; Staining and var nishing hardwood finishing ; graining ; bronzing.
E-123. C h em ic a l E n g in eer in g III. Lectures and laboratory continue the work along the lines of E-119 and E-121, taking up humidity studies, dry ing and distillation, absorption, extraction, and crystallization. Prereq., E-121. 2 hrs. lec., 6 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 12 units. D r . J am es and M r . W e it z .
5. Intermediate Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours. Enforced requisite: course 4. Continuation of course 4.
251, 252 AMERICAN NOVEL Masterpieces of nineteenth-century Ameri can fiction selected on the basis of literary merit. Lectures, class discussions, oral and written reports. First semester: Hawthorne, Melville, and others; second semester: Mark Twain, Howells, James and others. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours.
216. Distributed Multiaccess Control in Networks. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisites: courses 212A, 215. Topics from the eld of distributed control and access in computer networks, including terrestrial distributed computer networks; satellite packet switching; ground radio packet switching; local network architecture and control.
130 Philosophical Foundations of Education Criti cal examination of the aims of education and the most appro priate means of achieving those aims. Readings from historical and contemporary sources. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
172 Advanced Structural Design (3-0) Theory and design of steel structures including flexural members, axially loaded members and combined stress members; design of composite members; and plastic analysis and design. Co-requi site: 171. Three hours.
169. E l e m e n t s of S tr u ctu r es. This is a brief course, similar to but more elem entary than the work in structures as taken by stu dents in C ivil Engineering. It is intended to give the student in the course in Chemical Engineering such knowledge of the princi ples underlying this class of w ork as w ill enable him to intelligently attack the problems that may be presented to him.
389 SEMINAR IN APHASIA IN ADULTS Study of the symbolic and com municative disorders in aphasic patients. Rehabilitation strategies, both principles and procedures are presented. Prerequisite: 271. Three hours.
51, 52 Intermediate Hebrew Reading, translation, and discussion in Hebrew of texts selected to show the devel opment of Hebrew culture from Biblical times to .the present. Three hours.
M-423 and M-424. Case W ork I. Study of individual families who have failed of normality; analysis of the causes underlying their failures; construc tive plan of treatment. In conjunction with M-425. Required for Social Work. Junior year, first semester; 8 hrs. field work, 8 units. Second semester; 16 hrs. field work, 16 units.
309 FUNDAMENTALS OF LEGAL ENVIRONMENT OF BUSINESS A general overview of the areas of interaction between businesses and governments is developed. The course will examine governmental policy toward business and review the laws governing business-government interactions. Prerequisite: MBA standing. One and one-half hours.
BSAD 295 - Special Topics Advanced courses on topics beyond the scope of exising departmental oferings. See Schedule of Courses for specifc titles and prerequisites. Prerequisite: Senior sanding. Credits: 6.00
103 PROCESSING AND PACKAGING POULTRY PRODUCTS (2-2) The prin ciples of marketing of eggs and poultry meat; candling, grading, and packing eggs; preparation of poultry for market. A one-week inspection trip to the Boston market for which there is a charge of $25.00. Prerequisite: 1; junior standing. Three hours.
82-428 Offered intermittently: German Classical Literature 9 units Main trends from the Enlightenment through classicism, with special attention to Lessing, Goethe, and Schiller, 3 hrs rec. Prerequisite: 82-322 or equivalent.
11, 12 EUROPEAN CIVILIZATION European ideas and institutions in world history. Prerequisite: 11 for 12. Three hours
3 9 -3 9 0 C it C o-O p A ll S e m e s te rs : 0 -3 u n its The college of engineering at Carnegie Mellon considers experiential learning opportunities im po rtan t educational options for its undergraduate students. One such option is cooperative education, which provides a student with an extended period of exposure w ith a company. Therefore projects can be of significant depth in experience. To participate, students m ust com plete a CIT Co-op Approval form (located in Scaife Hall 110) and subm it fo r approval. Students m ust possess at least ju n io r status and have an overall grade point average of 3.0 or above. All co-ops must be approxim ately 8 months in uninterrupted length. If the co-op is approved, the CIT Undergraduate Studies Office will add the course to the student's schedule, and the student will be assessed tuitio n for 0-3 units. Upon com pletion of the co-op experience, students m ust subm it a 1-2 page report of their work experience, and a 1-2 page evaluation from the company supervisor to the CIT Undergraduate Office. If the reports are approved, a "P" grade will be assigned. International students should also be authorized by the Office oflnternational Education (OIE). More inform ation regarding CPT is available on OIE's website.
296 Field Experience. Professionally oriented field experience under joint super vision by faculty and business or communi ty representative. Credit arranged up to fif teen hours. Prerequisite: Departmental per mission.
GL-1H i s t o r y o f B o o k s a n d L i b r a r i e s A brief study of the development of printing, with atten tion to national bibliographies, chiefly of England and the United States. A survey of the growth of libraries in America to 1876. Two credits. Fall semester.
73-420 Monetary Theory and Policy Intermittent: 9 units This course is concerned with various topics in monetary and macroeconomics including anticipated inflation, hyperinflation, output effects of monetary policies, alternative techniques of monetary policy implementation, and the interaction of monetary and fiscal policy strategies. Analysis of these issues is conducted by means of simple but explicit dynamic models incorporating rational expectations. In addition, attention is devoted to alternative types of monetary systems _ commodity vs. paper money, for example. This segment of the course includes some consideration of issues relating to a technologically advanced society in which transactions are carried out by means of a computerized economy-wide bookkeeping system, rather than by money. Prerequisites: 73-250 and 73-300.
BSAD 285 - Options and Futures Financial derivatives - options, futures and swaps. Topics include: sructures of the markets for exchange traded and over-the counter derivatives; identifcation and exploitation of arbitrage opportunities; use and misuse of derivatives to hedge risk in both fnancial and product markets. Prerequisites or Corequisites: BSAD 180. Credits: 3.00
241A- 241B . City School Administration . (2-2) Yr .
202A. Epidemiology: Theory and Methodology. (4) Lecture, four hours. Requisite: course 201B. Advanced principles and methods of epidemiologic analysis. Topics include relating prevalence and incidence, analysis of clustering and seasonality; measures of effect, sources of bias, regression to the mean, estimation and hypothesis testing in epidemiology; models for risk and rates; cohort analysis.
54-311,312 Fall: 6 units Voice and Speech III Spring: 6 units Advanced work and individual coaching based on problems found in rehearsal and performance; study of major European dialects.
5 4 -3 2 3 ,3 2 4 Fall: 6 units Dance III Spring: 6 units And advanced/professional ballet class emphasizing quick study, continually demanding movement patterns and tech nique. Introduction to pointe and partnering. Theatre dance and tap classes are given regularly.
Handwork Methods: Prerequisite , Handwork I. Two hours. Two units.
GRK 295. Advanced Special Topics. 1-18 Credits. Advanced courses or seminars on topics beyond the scope of existing departmental offerings.
71 COSTUME DESIGN (1-4) Application of design fundamentals and prin ciples to fashion planning. Techniques of fashion illustration. Prerequisite: 21. Three hours. Miss Caldwell.
286B. Cost-Benet Analysis of Development Projects. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 286A. Methodology for evaluating investment projects, with special attention to types of issues that arise in developing countries. Discussion of social versus private evaluation criteria; applications to highway, electricity, and irrigation projects.
C-217 and C-218. Intermediate Scientific F rench. This course is planned to give the student a working knowledge of the French language which will enable him to read scientific and technical works relating to his profession; rapid review of inflections and syntax; special study of the irregular verbs; reading and translation of technical matter. Prereq., C-201 and C-202, or the equivalent. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
G108 BIOLOGICAL STATISTICS The application of statistics to the analysis of biological data. Interpretation of statistical analysis. Prerequisite: senior standing. Three hours.
180. Psychology of Advertising and Selling. (2) I. Mr. Walter The relative strength of the desires in buying ; attention value of form, size, color, and typographical layout and methods of measuring the effectiveness of advertisements; characteristics Of salesman.
-230 Community Planning Techniques:(3-0) Size, spacing, and functions of cities; economic, social, and physical ^determinants of land-use-elements; studies for urban planning; process of land-use planning. Prerequisite: -Senior or graduate -standing. Three hours.
232 Social Class and Mobility Comparative and his torical analysis of causes, forms, and consequences of struc tured social inequality in societies. Examination of selected problems in contemporary stratification theory and research. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
C-311 a n d C-312. S o c ia l a n d I n d u s t r i a l H i s t o r y o f t h e U n it e d S t a t e s . E u r o p e a n b a c k g r o u n d o f A m e r ic a n h is to r y ; su rv e y o f th e in d u stria l resou rces o f th e U n ite d S ta t e s ; e c o n o m ic o rg a n iza tio n o f th e U n ite d S ta te s b e fo r e th e in d u strial r e v o lu t io n ; th e rise o f th e fa c to r y s y s t e m ; d e v e lo p m e n t o f a la b o r c la ss; in crease o f in d u stria l in flu en ce in p o litica l d e v e lo p m e n t; rise o f large scale p r o d u c tiv e o r g a n iz a t io n ; tra d e ex p a n sio n in to w o r ld m a r k e t ; p resen ta tio n o f the m o s t in sisten t p r o b le m s fa c in g th e U n ite d S ta tes to d a y fo r so lu tio n . F irst a n d sec o n d s e m e ste r s; 3 h rs. rec., 6 h rs. p r e p ., 9 u n its.
149. Group Dynamics. (3) I. Mr. Raven Prerequisite : course 145. The theory and phenomena of group behavior ; effects of group membership on the individual ; relations between groups; methods of group observation; role of groups in society.
599. Research for Ph.D. Dissertation. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
M-421 and M-422. R ecreation II. Practical community work ir social settlements or organized effort to develop the leadership of the local commun ity. Required for Social Work. Junior year, first and second semesters; 1 hr. rec., 2 hrs. field work, 3 units.
202 Historic Preservation Special topics. Current of ferings include: Conservation Techniques for Historic Struc tures, Historic Preservation: Development Economics, Historic Preservation Law. Three hours.
A-227 and A-228. Methods of Teaching Voice and Speech. Problems of presenting the subject in the elementary school, secondary school, and college. A working acquaintance with the literature in the field. Curriculum planning. Tests and measurements. Types of vocal difficulties; corrective measures. Types of speech difficulties; corrective measures.
21 ORGANIC EVOLUTION A nonlaboratory course on the theory of evolu tion. For material covered see description of 2. A student may not receive credit for both 2 and 21. Prerequisite: sophomore standing. Three hours.
C-6. I n t e g r a l C a lc u lu s . A briefer course than C-4, for certain special classes of students. It includes a study of the definite integral with applications. Prereq., C-3. Second semester; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
GRK 211. Greek Prose Style. 3 Credits. Readings in literary prose analyzed stylistically and imitated in composition. Required of Greek
240 Political Sociology Examination of the social or ganization of power and authority in modern societies and the dynamics and institutional relationships of political instututions, interest groups, parties, and publics. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
197, 198 Independent Study Independent investiga tion designed by the student as a means of applying prior course work to a specialized problem. Well suited for senior projects. Prerequisite: Permission of BSAD Undergraduate Studies Committee.
A-1319 and A-1320. S ketching. Freehand drawing with es pecial emphasis on the development of freedom of handling; sketch ing of three-dimensional objects wiith attention to the use of light and shade.
M242. Counseling Families of Handicapped Children. (1/2 course) (Same as Psychiatry M254.) Prerequisite: consent of instructor. Techniques and issues in counseling families through evaluation, feedback, and treatment. Social and psychological stresses on family unit, professional's reactions, community resources, and issues of genetic counseling, placement, and developmental crises.
1-619. C a b in e t -M a k in g . A study o f scientific cabinet-making, chair-making and case w ork; simple upholstery, involving the making of a number of projects such as chairs and rockers, library tables, bookcases, cedar chests. Lectures on leather and tanning, grades and varieties of leather, and leather substitutes; willow and its uses; fundamental principles of cabinet-making, and the modern factory methods. Study of decorative principles, inlaying, carving (simple), use of twisted work, and turned decorative ornaments. Projects: round, elliptical and square tables, side tables, chairs. Projects must be designed and detailed by student, with study of suitable cabinet woods for design selected. Lectures on the origin and use of cane and rattan; foreign cabinetwoods, species, and where obtained; wood finishing, materials and methods; enamels; veneering and laminated woods. Junior year, first semester; 9 hrs. shop, 9 units.
301 ADVANCED MACHINE DESIGN (3-0) Advanced mechanics of mate rials and applications to mechanical design according to the interests of the student. Prerequisite: 136. Three hours.
282A-282Z. Topics in International Economics. (4 each) Lecture, three hours. Current research in international economics.
I. Kindergarten Theory . One hour a week to each subject specified. t. Songs and Games. (a) Lectures, essays, and discussions. A study of b'roebel 's philosophy as embodied in the Mother Plays. (b) Games : Development from physical activities and representative exercises of Traditional and Kindergarten games. 2. Gifts and Occupations . (a) Gifts: Lectures , essays, and exercises. A study of the principles illustrated in Proebel 's series of educational toys, with their use, At the meeting of the joint Board of Normal School Trustees , held -April , 1904, it was decided that the Kindergarten Training Course under the auspices of the Los Angeles State Normal School would be the only one maintained by the State until further action.
114. American Indian Linguistics. (4) Strongly recommended preparation: course 20. Survey of genetic, areal, and typological classications of American Indian languages; writing systems for American Indian languages; American Indian languages in social and historical context. One or more languages may be investigated in detail.
197, 198 SENIOR RESEARCH The student works on a research prob lem under the direction of a qualified staff member and submits the findings in a written form prescribed by the department. Prerequisite: senior stand ing. Three hours.
A-S47 and A-548. P ottery. Demonstrations, lectures and some production covering building, throwing and turning on potters wheel fill molds and casts. Construction and use of glazes and mixing and refinement of clays.
C-276. E th ic s. The first part of this course concerns itself with the theory of moral conduct, while the latter part will be devoted to the ethical signifi cance of modern social problems. It considers in turn the moral problems con nected with the home, art, industry, politics, and religion; studies the changes in opinions and ideals'produced by the war; and endeavors to forecast the lines of moral reconstruction. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
C-545 and C-546. P h ysical Education III. Sports and individual games (tennis, swimming, etc.). Elective for juniors and seniors. First and second semesters; 3 hrs., 3 units.
C-532. Continuation of C-531. Freshman year, second semester, 3 hrs., 3 units.
150. Introduction to Arabic Literature and Culture. (4) (Formerly numbered 150A-150B.) Lecture, three hours. Readings in English; knowledge of Arabic not required. Culture of Arabic-speaking peoples through their literature. Texts range from pre-Islamic poetry to contemporary novels, along with works in history and anthropology, to place these writings in their social context.
272 Public and School Library Services. Prerequisite: Twelve hours in education and related areas, or permission of instruc tor. Three hours.
152 Philosophy of Art A consideration of some lead ing theories of art, and their application to problems of art as they appear in music, literature, painting, and in the general criticism of the arts. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours:
283 Personal and Family Development in Later Life. Cognitive development, intellec tual performance, work and achievement, retirement and leisure, personal, develop ment, self-esteem, coping mechanisms, dy ing, couples, intergenerational and kinship issues. Prerequisite: 181 or permission. Three hours.
317 ADVANCED NEUROSCIENCE This course emphasizes current multidisciplinary approaches to the study of brain and behavior, particularly systems neurophysiology and transmitter neuropharmacology. Students pursue areas of special interest. Prerequisite: 302, Psych. 222, or permission. Three hours.
112. Analytic Geometry of Space . (3) Either half -year . (Credit A, B) Tu Th 8, 9. Professor SmmwooD Prerequisite : courses 5 and 6.
A-902. Modeling I. A continuation of A-901, stressing the same approach through problems of advancing difficulty.
E-958. A d v er t isin g D e sig n . Application of psychological principles to advertising; advertising display and illustration; principal forms of advertis ing mediums; designing, writing, and printing of catalogs, booklets, and folders; direct advertising; house publications. The class is maintained asja service department, studying actual business problems. Prereq., E-955. Senior year, second semester, 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. P ro fesso r St e r l in g .
82-180 Bilingualism Around the Word Freshman Seminar in Modern Languages Offered Intermittently: 9 units This course will examine social and cognitive effects of knowing two languages, i.e. bilingualism. It will focus on the individual, the education system and society. We will begin by contrasting worldwide multilingual contexts such as India, Africa and parts of Europe with the language situation in the U.S. We will consider topics such as the measurement and description of bilingualism; the relationship between native language acquisition and second language learning; the affective and cognitive consequences of second language proficiency; and the societal repercussions of encouraging or discouraging second language learning or teaching programs. Examples, reading, and assignments wil I be selected to permit consideration of a range of issues from both monolingual and bilingual countries.
65. S t r e s s e s. This course includes a stu d y of the fundam ental principles governing the distribution of the stresses in the different members of fram ed structures subjected to know n external loads; the investigation of simple fram ed structures, such as roof and bridge trusses for the purpose of determ ining the probable loads th ey m ay be required to carry and finally the determ ination of the m axim um stress and distortion in each m em ber due to these loads.
167B . Learning Disorders : Laboratory . (2-4) I, II. Mr. Coleman, Lecture, one hour; laboratory, five hours, distributed over not less than three days a week . Laboratory course for course 187A. This course provides supervised laboratory experience with remedial cases in the Psychology Clinic School . It is recommended that the course be taken concurrently with 167A.
E-119. P hysical Ch em istry. Gases: laws and deviations, kinetic theory and laws of thermodynamics. Liquids: critical state, molecular weights, optical refractivity, viscosity, and surface tension. Solutions: osmotic pressure, vapor pressures, distillation of mixtures. Colloids and flotation process. Phase rule with metallurgical applications. Thermochemistry: heats of formation, solu tion, neutralization. Mass law; chemical kinetics with problems in blast furnace equilibrium; electrolytic dissociation; electrolysis; conductivity; migration ratios; dilution laws and electromotive force. Prereq., E-107.
24. Home Economies Survey .. (3) Either half -year . (Credit B) M W F, 11. Miss JENKINS, Miss LYNCH For general professional and kindergarten -primary students. A brief discussion of problems in the selection and use of food and clothing and in the administration of the household.
20. Introduction to Linguistics. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Introduction to theory and methods of linguistics: universal properties of human language; phonetic, phonological, morphological, syntactic, and semantic structures and analysis; nature and form of grammar.
M146. Language in Culture. (4) (Same as Anthropology M140.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 20 or Anthropology 33. Study of language as an aspect of culture; relation of habitual thought and behavior to language; and language and the classication of experience. Holistic approach to study of language, with emphasis on relationship of linguistic anthropology to elds of biological, cultural, and social anthropology, as well as archaeology.
222A-222B-222C. Social Welfare Administration I, II, III. (1/2 course each) Prerequisite: Graduate Standing and/or consent of instructor. Study of methods by which welfare policies are formulated and translated into action; the nature of organizationa I and research process involved in welfare administration; role of welfare agency personnel in policy formulation, implementation and evaluation.
M196B. Modeling and Simulation of Biological Systems. (5) (Same as Medicine M196B.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour; laboratory, two hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: Electrical Engineering 102 or Mathematics 115A. Introduction to dynamic system modeling, compartmental modeling, and computer simulation methods for studying biomedical systems. Basics of numerical simulation algorithms, translating biomodeling goals and data into mathematic models and implementing them for simulation and analysis. Modeling software exploited for class assignments in PC laboratory.
C-341 and C-342. H istory of th e U nited States. Explorations and dis coveries leading to the colonization of America; growth of industry, agriculture, commerce, transportation, population, and labor from the simple agricultural communities of the colonies to the highly complex industrial and commercial society of today; special emphasis on the social economic development of the United States since 1865. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
82-412 Contemporary French Theatre Main trends and representative authors of the French theatre since Jarry's "Ubu Roi." 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-302 or equivalent.
111. Theory of Algebraic Equations . (3) Either half -year. (Credit A,.B) Tu Th S, 10. Associate Professor JAMES Prerequisite : courses 8 and 9.
EDHE 380. Prof Problems in Education. 3 Credits. Designed to cover selected educational problems in depth. The major emphasis will be on intensive and critical analysis of the literature and practice in a given area.
HLTH 211. D2: Sustainable Dev Pub Hlth. 3 Credits. Introduction to development of sustainable public health interventions through service learning. Faculty-led program abroad. Prerequisite: Junior standing or above.
103B. Advanced Infantry Training. (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) tTu Th, 8, 11. Assistant Professor HEATH Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course ; instruction in machine gun theory of fire, direct and indirect fire, barrage firing , and tactical handling in the offense and defense.
A-903. Modeling II. This course builds upon the training and experience developed in A-902 and requires a broad range of visual and technical experience. Prereq., A-902.
344 NATURAL PRODUCTS THE TERPENES The chemistry of mono, sesqui, di and triterpenes, including degradations, structure proofs, total syn theses, rearrangement reactions and biogenesis. Prerequisite: Credit or concur rent enrollment in 242. Three hours.
E-124. C h em ic a l T h erm o d yn am ics. The applications of the three laws of thermodynamics to chemistry; the internal energy, the heat content, the entropy and the free energy of chemical substances; standard free energy and equilibrium constants. Prereq., E-118 and C -5. 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. D r. S e l t z .
54-283,284 Fall: 9 units History of Theatre and Dram a II Spring: 9 units Dramatic literature and all aspects of theatre practice from the Renaissance and the Golden Age with emphasis on Shakes peare to early 19th Century. The evolution of theatre and drama is discussed in the context of the major developments in cultural history. Readings and critical discussions of the texts.
106A-106B-106C. Advanced Modern Eastern Armenian. (4-4-4) Requisite: course 105C. Course 106A is requisite to 106B, which is requisite to 106C. Discussion of contemporary Armenian social and cultural issues through readings from critical essays, editorials, short stories, and poems written since World War II and lm showings. Emphasis on enhancing students self expression orally and in written form.
1-741. F o rg e . Tools, kind oi material, manufacture and use. Fires, coal, coke, brick, gas, oil, how to build and operate them. Shop layout, emphasizing labor saving devices. Testing, practical tests to determine quickly, wrought iron, mild steel, demonstrating high speed steel. Defects, mechanical treatment of steel, demon strating defective forging. Forging, anvil practice, on pointing, bending, upsetting, welding, using blue prints on progressive prob lems. Students to calculate material. Heat treatment, simple hard ening and tempering, demonstrating use of heat measuring instrument and furnaces. Freshman year, first or second semesters ; 2 hrs. shop, 2 units.
8. Elementary Chinese: Intensive. (12) Lecture, 10 hours; discussion, 10 hours. Not open to students who have learned, from whatever source, enough Chinese to qualify for more advanced courses. Intensive course equivalent to courses 1, 2, and 3. Introduction to fundamentals of standard Chinese, including pronunciation, grammar, and Chinese characters, with emphasis on all four basic language skills speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing.
C-2. T rigonometry, C alculus, and A nalytic Geometry. Functions of the sum and difference of two angles and of half and double angles, identities, oblique triangles, radian measure, inverse functions, differentiation and integration of xn with applications, straight lines, circles, parabolas, ellipses, and hyderbolas. Freshman year. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
153 HOME MANAGEMENT RESIDENCE Practical application of home man agement and group living in the Home Management Residence. A charge of $95.00 is made to cover partial cost of board and operating expenses. Students not living on campus are charged for room rent proportional to that paid by student in University residence halls. Prerequisite: 101, 137. Three hours.
154A- 1548. European Governments and Political Institutions . (2-2) Yr. (Credit A, B) Assistant Professor Gms sx A study of representative types of European governments : presidential , parliamentary , federal , unitary , comparing them in regard to powers, forms of organization , and functions , and with brief discussion of political parties , elections , political ideas , and foreign relations.
13. FORMS OF PRESENT-DAY LITERATURE. A study of English poetry and novel, with particular reference to contemporary movements and writers. Three hours,
296 MODERN ECONOMIC THOUGHT Survey of the leading 20th Century economists and their doctrines including: J. B. Clark, Thorstein Veblen, Alfred Marshall, W. C. Mitchell, J. A. Hobson, J. M. Keynes and J. R. Hicks. Pre requisite: 295. Three hours
82-382/782 Structure of English Offered Intermittently: 9 units This course will provide a description of the lexical and syntactic structures of English. Students will be introduced to linguistic analysis as well as analysis of grammatical relations within sentences and rhetorical relations among sentences. The class is designed to prepare teachers of English as a second or foreign language who will be working either in an American school setting or teaching abroad.
Mathematics IV: Elementary Algebra A review of high school algebra, with special emphasis upon the teaching of *algebra in the intermediate schools.. Open to the same class of students as Mathematics I. Five hours. Five units.
76-439 Advanced Seminar In Film Studies Fall or Spring: 9 units Prerequisite: 76-239 Topics will vary by semester. Consult the course descriptions provided by the Department each sem ester for current offerings. Example: Blockbusters: Fiction into Film In this class we will look at popular novels-from a range of tim e periods-that have been turned Into popular films. Our goal will be to think about adaptation as a mode of interpretation: the ways in which what gets left In, what gets left out, and what gets changed, says something about the historical and cultural m om ent within which the film is made. Novel/Film combos that we will examine will range from Sense and Sensibility, Frankenstein, and House o f Mirth, to Beloved, Waiting to Exhale, and Jurassic Park. You will produce a long research paper on a novel/film combo of your own choosing.
284 ADVANCED HEAT ENGINES (3-0) Application of engineering science to specific types of heat engines according to the interest of the students. Pre requisite: 111, 142, 266. Three hours.
M-407. Story T elling. Training and practical experience in telling stories to children; the interest of childhood; sources and adaptation of material. Required for Social Work. Sophomore year, first semester; 1 hr. rec., 2 hrs. prep.. 3 units.
2. English Practical English Grammar; Language Exercises; Spelling; Reading. Four hours,
20A-20B-20C. The Developmental Growth of Air Power (1 unit each). Prerequisites: courses 1A-1B1C. The development of air power over the past 60 years. The development of various concepts of employment of air power, with emphasis on factors which have prompted research and technological change. Key events and elements in the history of air power, especially where these provide significant examples of the impact of air power on strategic thought.
101, 102 WORLD PROBLEMS A different major issue of particular impor tance to men and women in the modern world will be presented, each semester, by various instructors from the humanities, the sciences, and the applied arts. Language and communication, evolutionary thinking, and problems of educa tion are examples of topics recently studied. Lectures, discussion, readings and reports. Not counted toward concentration requirements. Prerequisite: senior standing or permission of the director. Three hours.
132. Introduction to Educational Measurement . (2) Either half -year. (Credit B). M W, 8; Tu Th, 8; W F, 2. Associate Professor Wu.u i&s, Assistant Professor ROBisoN Prerequisite: Psychology 1A, 1B.
STRENGTH OF MATERIALS (Day and Night) 92. The course in this subject is so arranged that it will not involve higher mathematics than trigonometry. The application of this subject to machine and building construction is given careful attention. The ultimate strengths, elastic limits and working unitstresses for concrete, brick, timber, steel and cast iron are fully discussed. The action of these materials under tension, compres sion, shear and bending is taken up in detail with a view to select
C-542. Continuation of C-S41. Freshman year, second semester; 3 hrs., 3 units.
C-251. I ntroductory P sychology.
1B. Clothing Economics (Household Art 1B). (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) Miss LYNCH, Miss WILSON Prerequisite : Economics 1A. Clothing industries and clothing standards in relation to the economic and social life of the community ; quantity and cost budgets. for individuals and for family groups.
60 Financial Accounting Introduction to generally ac cepted accounting principles and techniques regarding corpor ations, partnerships, and proprietorships as they apply to in come determination and financial position presentation. Pre requisite: Sophomore standing. Four hours.
C*-24. A lg eb ra II. Theory of determinants and matrices, systems of linear equations, elimination theory, and other selected topics varying from year to year. Prereq., C-23. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. Offered in 1941-42, and thereafter in alternate years.
H -l. Hygiene. Lectures and discussions on personal and general hygiene. Each semester; 1 hr. rec., 1 hr. prep., 2 units.
295 HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT Development of economic ideas from classical antiquity to modern times. The Classical, Historical, Socialist, Op timist, Marginalist, and Neoclassical Schools. Prerequisite: 286 or 201-202 and consent of instructor. Three hours
C 202 ab. German II. A course in elementary scientific reading. The acquisition of an elementary technical vocabulary is aided by a brief study of German word-formation. The reading is accompanied by a review of inflections and syntax by means of simple exercises based on the text. Sophomore year; three quarters; three hours a week. Prerequisite: German I.
54-273,274 Fall: 6 units Technical Production II Spring: 6 units Lecture and practicum in advanced stagecraft techniques; emphasis on planning and budgeting, special problems in con struction, assembly, rigging and handling of scenery. Project assignments in problem solving.
170. Language and Society: Introduction to Sociolinguistics. (4) Requisite: course 20. Study of patterned covariation of language and society; social dialects and social styles in language; problems of multilingual societies.
254 EMERSON, THOREAU AND THEIR CIRCLE The essays, journals, and poetry of Emerson, and Thoreau's Walden. Minor writers in the group will re ceive briefer treatment. Lectures, discussions, oral and written reports. Pre requisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
12. THE RESTORATION AND THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. A study of the poetry and prose of the periods indicated, especially the principles of New Classicism, the emergence of early romantic tendencies, eighteenth-century satire, and the rise of the essay. Three hours.
230. Medieval Literary Texts. (4) Lecture, two hours. Readings in Arabic prose and poetry, survey of prosody.
167. Problems in Part -time Education . (3) IL (Credit B) Mr. JOHNSON
E-136. I n spec t io n T r ip s. Visits to manufacturing establishments of the Pittsburgh district, including a varied group of chemical industries, such as oil refining, paint and varnish, glass, soap, rubber, potteries, oxygen pro duction, by-product coke plants, sulphuric acid works, etc.; also power plants, storage battery installations, certain lines of metal fabrication. The student is required to study not only particular types of apparatus, but plant layout and routing of materials, shipping facilities and the general problems of plant opera tion. Prereq., E-121. 3 hrs. lab., 3 units. M r . W e it z .
179. Municipal Sanitation. Study of various problems in volved in street cleaning, garbage collection and disposal, and other topics relating to the public health.
C180. Mathematical Linguistics I. (4) Lecture, four hours. Requisite: course 120B. Recommended: Philosophy 31. Prior mathematics knowledge not assumed. Mathematical introduction to phonology, syntax, and semantics. Elementary material on logic, sets, functions, relations, and trees.
175 MOTION AND TIME STUDY (2-3) Principles and methods of analyzing work; job improvement; stop watch studies; elemental and predetermined time standards and miscellaneous related topics. Prerequisite: junior or senior stand ing. Three hours.
395 INDEPENDENT LITERATURE RESEARCH PROJECT Reading and literature research culminating in the preparation of a comprehensive and critical review of a topic of current interest in chemistry. Credit as arranged.
1-911 and 1-912. P resswork. Types of presses; materials of the craft; make-ready and running plain type forms; make-ready and running half tone and color forms; process color-work; hand' cut and mechanical overlays for half tone plates; embossing, cuting and scoring; mechanical feeders. First and second semesters; 4 hrs. shop, 4 units.
2 BRICKLAYING (Day and Night) Proper method of handling tools; preparing mortar; straight walls; building piers; arches, bonded and ring; fireplaces and gathering over flues; fire proof partitions; ornamental cornices and panels; bonding brick work to steel frame buildings; setting terra cotta; pressed brick work; vitrified brick work.
101. Elementary Geometry for Advanced Students . (3) I. (Credit A, B) M W F, 8. Assistant Professor DAus Prerequisite : courses 5 and 6. Selected topics in elementary geometry , with particular emphasis on recent developments.
GRNS 341. CNL Project & Seminar II. 2 Credits. This seminar supports student learning during the clinical immersion practicum. Prerequisites: GRNS 339, GRNS 340. Pre/Co-requisites: GRNS 322, GRNS 323, GRNS 324, GRNS 325, GRNS 326, GRNS 342.
C -351. G e n e r a l E conomics I. Principles governing production of wealth. Exchange and related problems; money, banking, crises and use of index numbers, international trade. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units each semester. A l l M e m b er s o f t h e D e pa r t m e n t.
597. Examination Preparation. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
73-500 Honors Thesis 9 units Economics majors with outstanding academic records and intellectual promise will be given the opportunity to undertake original research under the direction of individual faculty members. Research topics are selected by students and faculty. Prerequisites: Senior standing in the Economics Department and permission of faculty.
II-12 INTERMEDIATE HEBREW. Three hotirs. I, II Translation, conversation, and reading of texts designed to give some knowledge of the development of Hebrew life, thought, and culture from Biblical times to the present. Prerequisite: 1-2 or equivalent.
Cooking. A dvanced Course. (One year.) Cooking (60). A pplicants for adm ission to this course m ust either have com pleted the beginners course, or give satisfactory evidence of equivalent proficiency.
1 World History to 1500 Survey of global history from humanity's earliest civilizations to the age of European over seas expansion. Three hours.
GE-657a, b (1st and 2nd sem.). Fundamental Principles of Alloy Steels. A study of the theoretical con cepts underlying austenite formation and decomposition into ferrite, pearlite, cementite, bainite and martensite. Tempering of martensite. The effects of alloying elements on these reactions. Application of these principles to some common alloy steels including SAE steels, tool steels, stainless steels, magnetic materials and alloy cast irons. Reaction with atmospheres during heat treatment. Prereq., A, B, C, D, E, G. 2 hrs. lec., 8 units each sem.
1-506. P lumbing and Sanitary Codes. Plumbing and sani tary codes of cities and States; testing and laying out plumbing jobs according to modern rules; estimating; septic tanks; heating dwell ings ; roughing-in-work; roughing-in- bath rooms using cast iron and lead pipe for waste, and galvanized iron for water lines (for students specializing in Plumbing). Installing vapor heating systems (for students specializing in Heating and Ventilating). Second semester; 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
GRNS 342. Clinical Immersion Practicum. 2.5 Credits. This synthesis practice experience is designed to strengthen students point of care leadership. Prerequisites: GRNS 321, GRNS 322, GRNS 323, GRNS 324, GRNS 326, GRNS 335, GRNS 336, GRNS 337, and GRNS 338. Pre/Co-requisites: GRNS 340, GRNS 341.
1-891. T ypew riting. W riting by touch; m astery of the keyboard; mechanism of the machine; practice in copying notes, tabulating exercises, making carbon copies and developing speed; w ritten reports.
C*-28. H igher M athem atics fo r Science Students. Introduction to vector analysis, generalized coordinates, Lagranges equations of motion, solu tion of boundary value problems in partial differential equations (problems in diffusion and heat flow, cooling, potential, and wave motion). Prereq., C-21. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
282. Human Genetics Seminar and Journal Club. (2) Seminar, 90 minutes; discussion, 90 minutes. Limited to graduate students. Participation and presentation in weekly journal club meeting whose topics reflect ones of the talk in Human Genetics Seminar Series during following week. Attendance and production of short written report required.
254 Sociology of Health and Medicine The social organization and institutional relationships of medicine in society and the role of sociocultural factors in the etiology, defi nition, identification, and treatment of illness. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
293A-293Z. Topics in Urban Economics. (4 each) Lecture, three hours. Current research in urban and regional economics. Content varies. Serves as forum for presentation of papers on urban economics by students, UCLA faculty members, and visitors.
231, 232 VICTORIAN LITERATURE A study of the lives and the works, except the novels, of the significant writers from 1832 to 1900. Prerequisites: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
3 9 -4 0 5 E n g in e e rin g D e sig n : The C re a tio n o f P ro d u cts and Process F a ll: 12 u n its Introduction of concepts, m ethods and tools fo r successful engineering design, providing a fundam ental understanding of the design process. Emphasis on the interdisciplinary nature of the design process and on design methods applicable to a broad range of engineering disciplines. Major topics: the design process, current industrial practices, design activities and problem-solving techniques, problem representations, design management and computer-based design environm ents. Individual or group projects on selected aspects of the design process.
391 through 399 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Investigation of a research topic under the direction of an assigned staff member, culminating in an accept able thesis. Credit as arranged.
E-967. A d van ced P r ess w o r k . Advanced problems in cylinder presswork; rotation of colors, mixing and matching of colors; make-ready and running of various types of process color work. Second year, two-year course, first semester, 3 hrs. shop, 3 units. M r . T homas.
M230A-M230B. Old Iranian. (4-4) (Same as Iranian M230A-M230B.) Lecture, four hours. Studies in grammars and texts of Old Persian and Avestan. Comparative considerations. Only course M230B may be repeated for credit.
EDHE 295. Lab Experience in Educ. 1-6 Credits. Supervised field work designed to give students experience in specialized areas for their professional development. Prerequisite: Permission of the Coordinator of Professional Laboratory Experiences.
A-543 and A-544. Jew elry and M etal W ork. Lectures, demonstrations and some technical work with portfolio of notes, illustrative material and bib liography.
51 GREEK LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Lectures on the development of the various branches of Greek literature and on its chief authors, with special emphasis on Homer and the drama. Readings in stand ard translations from the major authors. No knowledge of Greek required. Prerequisite: junior standing. Three hours.
73-430 Topics in the Economics of Uncertainty Fall or Spring: 9 units The course is designed to investigate both the behavior of economic agents and the characteristics of markets in the face of uncertainty. The first third of the course deals with the behavior of individual agents and optimal choices under uncertainty. The second third of the course examines various notions of equilibrium in the face of uncertainty. We then consider various models which attempt to explain phenomena such as price dispersion and unemployment as arising from uncertainty. Prerequisites: 73-250 and 73-300.
207 MARKETS, FOOD, AND CONSUMERS Market structure, prices, and economic forces involved in the movement of farm products from producers to consumers. Prerequisite: 61 or Economics 12. Three hours.
310 Molecular Basis of Biological Motili ty. Molecular basis of muscle contraction, biological movement. Problems of ener getics, mechanics, chemistry of biological motility. Special emphasis on contraction of skeletal muscle. Lectures and confer ences. Prerequisites: 304-305, 302; Bio chemistry 301, 302; permission of instruc tor. Three hours.
410A-410B-410C. Environmental Science and Engineering Workshops. (2-2-2) Discussion, two hours. Primarily designed for environmental science and engineering doctoral students who are conducting problems courses. Development of multidisciplinary skills essential to solution of environmental problems studied within courses 400A through 400D.
50. Machine Drawing . (2) I. (Credit B) Assistant Professor MAxsrrua Machine elements and their application to problems in occupations and home mechanics.
BIOL 295 - Special Topics See Schedule of Courses for specifc titles. Credits: 4.00
89-90 DIET MODIFICATION IN DISEASE Diet modification in the treatment of disease. The role of diet in the nursing care. Laboratory work is integrated with hospital experience. For students in nursing. Integrated with Nursing Edu cation 19-20 Medical and Surgical Nursing. One hour. Miss McCarthy.
54-301,302 Acting Technique III: Fall: 1 8 units Rehearsal and Perform ance Spring: 1 8 Entering the casting pool. Working with the director. Perform ing publicly, usually in studio productions. Applying and de veloping the previous work in the rehearsal and performance situation.
82-182 Language and Culture: Language in its Social Context Offered Intermittently: 9 Units This course will explore the relationship between language and culture as it manifests itself in language use in a wide variety of speech communities throughout the world. The purpose of the course will be to demonstrate the multifaceted and complex relationship between language and culture and how language use both exemplifies cultural values and simultaneously serves to reinforce them. The course will consider a wide variety of topics, all of which demonstrate implicit cultural differences and attitudes as manifested through language use. Illustrative examples include analysis of the relationship between language and thought (the Sapir-Whorf linguistic relativity hypothesis); standard versus vernacular languages; attitudes toward language acquisition as it differs from one speech community to another; bilingualism and multiculturalism in this country and throughout the world; diglossia; language, literacy and education; non-verbal aspects of language use; gender-based differences in language and culture; sociolinguistic variables in the ethnography of speaking; language loss and language maintenance; politics, language planning and language policy and the impact of languages in contact.
237 Occupations and Professions Analysis of social organization of economic roles in industrial societies, the insti tutional relationships of occupations and professions, and im pact of work structure on the individual. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
3 9 -2 0 0 B usin e ss fo r E n g in e e rs Fall and S p rin g : 9 u n its This course is intended to prepare CIT graduates for the fast paced world of modern industry. There have been paradigm shifts th a t com plicate career selection and compound the difficulty of becoming a productive m em ber of an organization. Graduates of a technical program can benefit from an understanding of modern business concepts when they begin the ir careers. The content of this course will include both specific financial analysis topics and certain business adm inistration topics such as program m anagem ent, entrepreneurship and ethics. Students will become fam ilia r w ith analyzing financial statem ents, stock m arket reports and stock options while developing their verbal and w ritten presentation skills.
173 Reinforced Concrete (3-0) Analysis of stresses in plain and reinforced concrete members; design of reinforced concrete structures; and theory of prestressed concrete. Prereq uisite: 171. Three hours.
596. Directed Individual Study and Research. (2 to 12) Tutorial, to be arranged. Individual study or research for graduate students.
232 Botany Field Trip Trips to selected environments outside Vermont, led by faculty members representing dif ferent fields of botany. Overall, integrated approach to ecology, structure, and function. One hour.
216. Public Speaking. Practice in the preparation and de livery of prepared speeches and the art of extempore speaking. The work is carried on chiefly in the form of debates on assigned topics. All matters pertaining to the effective appearance of the speaker receive attention.
79-240 A History of American Urban Life Units 12 This course will concentrate upon the development and characteristics of the American city, with special emphasis on the industrial city. Consideration will be given, however, to such general questions as the origin and nature of cities, the characteristics of urban" man, com parisons between cities past and present, and the future of the city. Special emphasis will be placed on the question of attitudes toward the city, the process of urban growth, the economic development of cities, the problems of urban minorities, the role of the political machine, and selected contemporary urban problems. Prereq. 79-505 or 79-506.
222 Aging and Ethical Issues Analysis of selected ethical issues posed by an aging society and faced by older per sons, their families, health care and service providers, and researchers. Prerequisites: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
135 ADVANCED FOOD PREPARATION (2-4) Scientific principles and funda mental processes underlying food preparation and preservation with practical applications. Prerequisite: 43, chemistry 2. Four hours. Miss Williams.
291 SPECIAL PROBLEMS IN ANIMAL SCIENCES Reading, discussion, and special laboratory investigation in the field of animal sciences. Prerequi site: Departmental permission. Three hours.
291 ECONOMIC PATTERNS AND POLICIES OF EASTERN EUROPE An area approach to the resources, organization, and domestic and foreign economic policies of the Communist countries of Eastern Europe, with special emphasis on recent changes. Prerequisite: six hours of advanced courses in economics and six hours of political science or European history; senior standing. Three hours.
GRNS 324. Nsg Science & Prac Epistemolog. 3 Credits. Exploration of philosophy of science, theory, and development of nursing knowledge. Nursing and non-nursing philosophies and theories relevant to advanced nursing practice will be discussed. Prerequisites: Graduate standing or by faculty permission.
C132. Language Processing. (4) (Formerly numbered 132.) Lecture, four hours; discussion/laboratory, one hour. Requisites: courses 20, 120A, 120B. Central issues in language comprehension and production, with emphasis on how theories in linguistics inform processing models. Topics include word understanding (with emphasis on spoken language), parsing, anaphora and inferencing, speech error models of sentence production, and computation of syntactic structure during production.
1-618. W o o d T u r n i n g S p e e d L a t h e . Practice in use of gouge and skew; turning of various projects between centres, such as spindles, Indian clubs, maces, table legs ; drill in the different cuts. Face plate: Problems in which the work is screwed to an iron disc and formed without the use of a dead centre; also of various forming tools, as diamond point, chisel round nose, sheep nose Combination of face-plate and spindle turning: table tops, floor lamps. Rechucking: turning objects prepared by giving up woods of contrasting colors. Lectures on use and care of lathe and lathe tools; theory of turning; proper speeds; position at lathe; various cuts; and construction of large face plate operation. Sophomore year, second semester; 9 hrs. shop, 9 units.
197, 198 SENIOR RESEARCH Work on a research problem under the direc tion of a staff member. Findings submitted in written form as prescribed by the department. Prerequisite: senior standing. Three hours.
39-251 CIT Undergraduate Projects Spring: 0-18 units This course num ber is to be used for Spring CIT freshman research projects only. Student must complete a CIT Undergraduate Project Approval form (located in Scaife Hall 110) and subm it for approval. The form m ust include a complete description and a signature approval from the research advisor/instructor. If the project is approved, the CIT Undergraduate Studies Office will add the course to the student's fall schedule.
A-7 and A-8. H is t o r y o f P a i n t i n g a n d S c u l p t u r e . Illustrated lectures and reading covering the development and relation of the fine arts in general, with special attention to painting and sculpture.
9. THE ENGLISH NOVEL. A critical study of masterpieces of English fiction to the nineteenth century. Two hours,
216 TEACHING ADULTS (1-2) Problems of organization and of teaching classes in home economics to meet the needs of adults; supervised experience in techniques of teaching adults. Prerequisite: 165; and Education 145-146 or Agricultural Education 104, or equivalent. Two hours.
ANALYSIS Prerequisite : University entrance credit in Elementary Algebra and Plane Geometry. The methods of higher algebra ; trigonometry with applications involving logarithmic calculation; analytical geometry of the conic sections; introduction to the calculus ; limits, indeterminate forms, partial fractions, differentiation and simple methods of integration ; brief historical sketch of the origin and development of mathematical forms. Three hours for two semesters.
3. Elements of Meteorology. (2) II. (Credit A, B) Miss BAUGH A study of the earth 's atmosphere and the changes in it which .produce our weather ; the making and recording of meteorological observations ; practical work with meteorological instruments; study of weather maps ; lectures , recitations, and laboratory work.
E-639 and E-640. M ines M anagem ent. Organization of a mining company, job analysis, catalogue study, compensation insurance, rate making and stan dardization of mine inspection; analysis of mine laws and regulations; organized labor and capital; history of labor controversies in the coal mining industry; problems of transportation and marketing; evaluation of mining property; safety and welfare; causes and prevention of mine accidents; mine accounting; pay rolls; business ethics. Prereq., E-634. Mining, Senior year, second semes ter. Prereq., E-646.
A -9 and A - 1 0 . ^ H is t o r y o f C o s t u m e . Illustrated lectures and assigned reading dealing with historical styles, costuming figures, period illustration and painting.
BIOL 282 - Eco Lunch Review and discussion of current research. Attendance required of Biology Graduate sudents. Seniors in research programs may enroll for 0 credits. Credits: 0.00 to 1.00
A-221 and A-222. Voice and Speech. Development of proper breathing, vocal resonance, and projection of tone; the formation, description, and classification of the sounds of spoken English and their notation by The International Phonetic Alphabet; the characteristics of good speech and correct pro nunciation; the basic principles of English intonation as indicated by Klinghardts markings; drill in the use of sounds in connected speech; the recording and analysis of the speech of each student at various intervals in the course with prescribed corrective exercises.
342 NATURAL PRODUCTS THE ALKALOIDS The major classes of alkaloids will be surveyed from a biogenetic point of view. Classical and modern degradation methods, total syntheses and biosynthetic incorporation of labeled compounds. Prerequisite: Credit or concurrent enrollment in 242. Three hours.
EDHE 397. Problems in Education. 1-6 Credits. Individual work on a research problem selected by the student in consultation with a staff member. Prerequisite: Twelve hours in education and related areas; endorsement by a sponsoring faculty member.
1. Introduction to Study of Language. (4) Summary, for general undergraduates, of what is known about human language; unique nature of human language, its structure, its universality, and its diversity; language in its social and cultural setting; language in relation to other aspects of human inquiry and knowledge.
308 CORPORATE FINANCE An introduction to financial decision-making in the firm. Decisions related to acquisition and allocation of funds are examin ed, and practiced through cases and problems. Prerequisites: BSAD 306, MBA standing. Three hours.
C-391. E lem entar y E conom ics A study of the outline of economic theory with special reference to industrial history and the functions of pro duction, consumption, exchange and distribution. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
295, 296 Advanced Special Topics Advanced courses or seminars on topics beyond the scope of existing de partmental offerings. See Schedule of Courses for specific titles.
E-64. A dvanced H eat. Kinetic theory of gases, radiation, thermodynamics and the mathematical theory of conduction. Prereq., E-43. Physics, Junior or Senior year, second semester. M r. P rine.
A-231 and A-232. Stage Work. The students are given systematic instruction in the constructing and handling of scenery, properties, and lighting equipment and practical work in the making of cos tumes. All are required to perform work of this sort in connection with performances and to do practice work in all regular stations of a stage crew.
I-2 ELEMENTARY HEBREW. Three hours. I, n Reading, pronunciation, elements of grammar and conversation; exercises in composition and translation, designed to prepare the student to understand the Hebrew Scriptures and modern Hebrew literature.
GRNS 405. Adv Neurophamacology APRN. 3 Credits. In-depth examination of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs used to treat individuals with acute and chronic pain, neurologic and psychiatric illnesses across the lifespan. Prerequisites: GRNS 335, GRNS 404.
112 Introduction to the Philosophy of Science In troduction to major philosophical problems raised by science. Typical topics: the nature of scientific inference, the structure of theories, causation, explanation, and scientific change. Pre requisite: One course in philosophy or pne course in history of science or six hours in any natural science. Three hours.
100A-100B-100C. Advanced Modern Chinese. (44-4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, two hours. Requisite: course 6. Materials selected from contemporary Chinese publications, with emphasis on social sciences. Texts analyzed for their linguistic features and social and cultural background. Readings, compositions, informal debates on topical issues, and oral presentations.
181B. A study of public performances in the school program . Their purpose, types , sources of material , development, organization and presentation. The use of dance, music, lighting , and costuming.
1-909 and 1-910. F resswork. Platen presses, their regular and special functions; complicated make-ready; production of process color work on the universal type of press; scoring, embossing and cutting; operation of mechanical feeders. First and second semes ters ; 3 hrs. shop, 3 units.
M 31 ab. General Biology. An introduction to the study of living matter and the bearing of biological problems on human life. 18 units; 2 lec.; 4 hrs. lab. for 2 quarters.
196B. Honors Essay. (2) Requisite: course 196A. Piece of writing drafted in course 196A is presented in a seminar, revised, and put into nal form under supervision of a faculty member.
203 THE MAMMALIAN CELL AS A MICROORGANISM Discussion of such current ideas in cell biology as cell immortality, transformation, dedifferentiation, synchronization, cell-macromolecule interaction; laboratory will illustrate current cell culture techniques as a foundation for the lectures. De signed for biology students of varied training. Four hours. T. Moehring
278A-278B-278C. Proseminars: Industrial Organization and Regulation. (4-4-4) Seminar, three hours. Quarterly seminars for predissertation and dissertation writers to discuss advanced topics and recent developments in industrial organization and regulation. Presentation of work-in-progress for feedback from faculty and fellow students.
M-411. S o c ia l R e s o u r c e s. P u b lic and p riva te p rovision fo r the care of the so cially u n fit; P en n sylv an ia S tate w elfare legislation an d ad m in istration ; social agencies in P ittsb u rg h . V isits to social agencies and institutions. R equired fo r Social W o rk . Sop hom ore yea r, first sem ester; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. T h is course m a y also be taken as a Senior or J u n io r elective, first sem es ter, 2 hrs. rec., 7 hrs. prep., 9 units.
14 PETROLOGY (2-2) Study of the origin and characteristics of igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks and related ore deposits. Pre requisite: 11. Three hours.
79-101 The Shaping of Western Civilization Units 12 This course and 79-102 examine the varieties and tensions of the Western experience. Atten tion is focused on the makers of history, the major movements, developments critical to the quality of the Western life experience and specific turning-points in the history of Western civilization. 79-101 deals with the Traditional World from prehistoric man to the Renaissance.
152. American Political Parties . (2) II. (Credit A, B) Assistant Professor McCatxuocic American party history ; federal and state party organization; the electorate ; nominations and elections; the direct primary; party control of the legislature ; the President as party leader ; theory of American party divisions; American public opinion ; the rise of blocs.
180. Introduction to Algorithms and Complexity. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, two hours; outside study, six hours. Requisites: course 32, Mathematics 61. Limited to junior/senior Computer Science majors. Introduction to design and analysis of algorithms. Design techniques: divide-and-conquer, greedy method, dynamic programming; selection of prototypical algorithms; choice of data structures and representations; complexity measures: time, space, upper, lower bounds, asymptotic complexity; NP-completeness.
4. Intermediate Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours. Enforced requisite: course 3. Designed to strengthen communicative skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Grammar reviews, knowledge of idiomatic expressions, and both traditional and simplied characters.
151. Chinese Literature in Translation: Modern Literature. (4) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: English Composition 3 or one course from Comparative Literature 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, 2A, 2B, 2C. Knowledge of Chinese not required. Lectures and reading of representative works from 1900 to the present in English translation.
E-121. C h em ic a l E n g in eer in g II. Lectures; chemical engineering economics, patent law as it applies to chemical processes and products, organi zation and personnel. The laboratory is a continuation of E-119, and consists of an experimental study of the fundamental unit operations used in chemical manufacture. Semi-commercial equipment is available. Each member of a group, in turn, is responsible for the successful completion of one or more of these engineering tests. Prereq., E-119. 2 hrs. lec., 6 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 12 units. D r . J am es and M r . W e it z .
183 International Financial Management Theories and practices of international financial management exam ined. Topics investigated include: systems of international ex change, spot and forward markets, and expropriation and ex change risk. Prerequisites: 180,184. Three hours.
219. Current Topics in Computer System Modeling Analysis. (2 to 12) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Review of current literature in an area of computer system modeling analysis in which instructor has developed special prociency as a consequence of research interests. Students report on selected topics. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor.
3 SHEET METAL AND CORNICE WORK (Day and Night) Instruction in the use and care of hand tools and machines; soldering fluxes; pattern drawing, intersections and developments, parallel line, radial line, the triangulation methods of development; cutting out, forming and assembling work; simple pieces, brackets and mouldings of various designs; miters ; skylights ; piping intersections, elbows, etc.
C-276 E th ic s. The first part of this course concerns itself with the theory of moral conduct, while the latter part will be devoted to the ethical significance of modern social problems. It considers in turn the moral prob lems connected with the home, art, industry, politics and religion; studies the changes in opinions and ideals produced by the war; and endeavors to fore cast the lines of moral reconstruction. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
105A-105B-105C. Intermediate Modern Eastern Armenian. (4-4-4) Requisite: course 104C. Course 105A is requisite to 105B, which is requisite to 105C. Continuing introduction to Armenian grammar, with greater attention to readings from short stories and simple newspaper articles and lm viewing on video. Emphasis on improving students self expression in the idiom, both orally and in written form.
E-137. C h em ist r y O ptio n. W ith the approval of the Department, the student selects his research problem in one of several branches of chemistry represented. He may be assigned a problem. A report must be submitted which contains, in addition to the results of the students work, a summary of the scientific literature bearing upon the subject. Prereq., E-112, E-118. 9 hrs. lab., 9 units.
C-113 and C-114. E nglish L iterature. Survey of the outstanding forms of English Literature: essay, short story, novel, drama, lyric. Reading; reports. First and second semesters; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
2 World History Since 1500 Character, development, and emerging interdependence of the world's major civiliza tions since 1500, emphasizing the impact of Europe on the non-European world. Three hours.
E-953 and E-954. S k et c h in g . Simple layout sketching; pencil studies of the printers layout problems. The fundamentals of design are developed in preparation for the advanced courses. Historic ornament is studied and tracings are made for future reference. Sophomore year, first and second semesters. First semester, 6 hrs. studio, 6 units; second semester, 4 hrs. studio, 4 units. P ro fesso r St e r l in g .
288 QUALITY CONTROL (2-2) Application of statistical tools to industrial problems. Control charts, sampling plans, index numbers, and measurement of trends. Prerequisite: 187. Three hours
6 European Civilization, 1815 to 1945 Survey em phasizing ideas and institutions which have helped shape western society and culture from the Napoleonic Era to the end of the Second World War. Three hours.
203 HOME MANAGEMENT PROBLEMS Application of economic and socio logical principles to some problems of the home and family. Prerequisite: 101, psychology 1. Three hours.
79-102 The Shaping of Western Civilization Units 12 70-102 focuses on the Modern World from its beginnings in the radical scientific outlook of the 16th and 17th centuries, through the sweeping and revolutionary economic and social changes of the 18th and 19th centuries, to the achievements and problems of today. It aims to make the contemporary world more comprehensible by examining the ideas and practices that have influenced its present shape.
306 FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING An introduction to the basic concepts, assumptions, and conventions which provide the foundation for developing financial statements. Emphasis is placed on analysis and interpretation of the in come statement, balance sheet, and statement of changes in financial position. Prerequisite: MBA standing. Three hours.
79-150 Society and the Arts Units 12 Where does art come from? And where is it going? To gain some answers, this course brings to bear insights from psychology, art history, sociology, and philosophical aesthetics. Students will ponder the lives and works of important artists and attend exhibits and performances in the Pittsburgh area. 2 hrs. lec., 2 hrs. rec.
107 19th Century Philosophy Study of works of such philosophers as Hegel, Fichte, Schopenhauer, J. S. Mill, Kier kegaard, Nietzsche, and Marx. Prerequisite: 102 is recommend ed. Three hours.
113 Intermediate Logic Study of the basic results about logical systems, including axiomatic treatments of sen tential calculus and first-order logic, independence, consis tency, soundness, completeness, and the Lowenheim-Skolem theorem. Prerequisite: 13. Three hours.
GE-659 (2nd sem.). Heat Flow in Metallurgical Processes. Mathematical treatment of heat transfer with emphasis on solid-fluid heat transfer, radiant energy transfer under non-black body conditions and with com plex geometry, and thermal conduction in the unsteady state; engineering applications to heat losses from fur naces, heating and cooling of bars or shapes, heat flow in quenching and evaluation of quenching media and heat transfer in industrial furnaces, regenerators and recuperators. Prereq., A, B, C, D, F.* 2 hrs. lec., 8 units.
308 Biometrics and Applied Statistics. In troduction to the rational use and evalua tion of statistical methods in planning ex periments and interpreting biological data. Biometrics laboratory included. Course limited to twelve students. Prerequisites: Math 110 or equivalent, and permission of instructor. Five hours.
243. Administration of Secondary Education . (2) II.
54-293,294 Fall: 2 units M ake-Up Spring: 2 units Basic techniques of stage make-up and their adaptation to the atrical styles. Emphasis on character, its relation to the actor and the audience.
154 Marketing Management The place of marketing in our economy. Analysis of the market structure by function, institutions, and commodities. Consumer and organizational activities reviewed. Prerequisites: Statistics 141, Computer Science 11, Economics 11, 12; junior standing. Three hours.
61 Managerial Accounting Introduction to use of ac counting for planning, cost behavior and control, and decision making. Prerequisite: 60. Four hours.
73-458 Money and Banking Fall and Spring: 9 units This course addresses several issues concerning money in our economic system. These include the definition of money and its role, an investigation of banks and their behavior, and the relationship of knowledge of the monetary system to controlling the economy. 3 hours recitation. Prerequisite: 73-300.
5 4 -3 4 1 ,3 4 2 Fall: 9 units Costum e Design I Section A Spring: 9 units Course follows a chronological sequence dealing with the transaction of historical costume forms and details into theatri cal terms. Emphasis on the use of design principles to com municate and express character, mood, style, etc. Figure draw ing and painting techniques are incorporated into the course.
390 ADVANCED AUDIOLOGY Audiological procedures: site of lesion testing, electrical response testing, impedance, adaptation, recruitment, and special speech tests. Prerequisite: Permission of Instructor and CS&D 286 (or equivalent). Three credits.
77. T h e o r y o f E l e c t r i c a l M e a s u r e m e n t s . T h is course covers the theory of m easurem ents of all electrical and m agnetic quantities which occur in direct current practice. Com m ercial forms of instrum ents are discussed in detail and m ethods of cali bration and standardization studied.
C-501. H y g ie n e (for Men). Lectures on hygiene and health, prefaced by lectures on physiology, establishing background for instruction and advice on foods, exercise, rest, hygiene of the mouth, teeth, throat, intestinal tract; care, correction and repair of functional organs; information on source and defense of health; contributory causes of poor health, agents injuring health, disease carriers; sex and mental hygiene. First semester; 1 hr. rec., 1 hr. prep., 2 units.
58 INTRODUCTORY AVIAN BIOLOGY (2-0) A study of the evolution of birds, including development from physiological and morphological view points. The endocrinology and physiology of reproduction and possible corre lations with morphological characters. Two hours.
599. PhD Dissertation Research. (8 to 12) Tutorial, to be arranged. May not be applied toward degree course requirements. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
105 EXPERIMENTAL EQUIPMENT (1-4) Performance measurement and rating of household equipment. Prerequisite: 54. Three hours.
191 Business Policy A variety of policy questions are examined. The viewpoint is global rather than functional. Problems include make or buy, plant location, product addi tion, and expansion. Prerequisite: Second semester BSAD senior standing. Three hours.
216 Criminal Justice Analysis of the social structures and processes involved in the identification and labeling of in dividuals as criminal offenders: criminal law, its enforcement and the courts. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
A-907. Life Modeling. An advanced course in modeling from the complete figure at three-quarters to full scale. Prereq., A-906.
15, 16 ECONOMIC HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES Analysis of capital ism as first developed in Western Europe and later in the United States as a basis for understanding our modern economic systems. Prerequisite: sophomore standing. Concurrent enrollment in 11-12 recommended. Three hours.
C-258. I n t r o d u c t io n t o S o c ia l P h i l o s o p h y . A consideration of social problems from the standpoint of psychology. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
66. Millinery. (2) Either half -year . (Credit B ) Miss LYNCH TuTh,13. Prerequisite : Art 2A and Home Economics IA or equivalent. Study of trade methods and markets for millinery supplies ; execution of designs illustrating problems involved in class demonstration in laboratory teaching , and in the direction of club projects. t These courses are given primarily for students in the vocational curriculum but are open to students in other curricula in the Teachers College.
51. Architectural Drawing . (2) II. (Credit B) Assistant Professor MAxsriarn Lettering , details of typical frame and masonry construction, plans, elevations , sections and specifications.
C-231 and C-232. A dvanced Scientific Ger m an. Similar in plan and scope to the advanced scientific French course. Prereq., two years of high school German or the equivalent. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
174. Elements of Computer Graphics. (4) Lecture, two hours; laboratory, two hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course 32. Hardware and software elements of computer graphics systems. Graphics languages. Graphic workstations and specialized input/output (I/O) devices. Design and development of interactive graphics programs.
A-1321 and A-1322. Constructive D esign. Continuation of fundamental principles of design as related to furniture, application of principles to specific problems such as designs for furniture and related interiors. Sophomore year, first and second semesters, 6 hours technical work; 6 uniits.
73-365 Industrial Organization Fall or Spring: 9 units This course is concerned with the economic analysis of industrial markets that are not perfectly competitive. The effects of imperfect competition on firms decisions (pricing, location, advertising, research and development, among others) are reviewed. Implications of these effects in terms of public policy are also discussed from a variety of perspectives. Finally, applications to actual markets are considered. Prerequisite: 73-250.
Geography VII: World Geography Intended for students not majoring in geography and who desire a very brief study of some of the leading countries of the world. The United States, the British Isles, France, Germany, Russia, Italy, AustriaHungary, India, China, Japan, and parts of South America, Africa and Australia are discussed. The State Series of Geographies are used. Prerequisite , same as for Geography II. Five hours. Five units.
1-512. B u ild in g S a n i t a t i o n . Arrangement of ventilation, and sanitary equipment in buildings; sub-soil drains; requirements of oc cupants for ventilation, and sanitary fixtures in dwellings, schools, office, hospitals, and public buildings; sanitation codes. Second semester; 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
1A. Clothing (Household Art 1A). (2) Either half -year . (Credit A, B) Prerequisite : Art 2A. Miss EVANS, Miss WILSON The study of kinds and qualities of materials for different uses; typical forms of clothing ; artistic appreciation, standards- and hygienic characteristics of dress.
Bookbinding III Continuation of Course II, including the lettering and tooling of book covers. Five hours. Three units.
171 Structural Analysis II (3-0) Statically indetermi nate structural analysis by consistent deformation and stiffness methods; determinations of deflections by energy methods; matrix analysis for frame structures and computer-aided analysis. Prerequisites: 170, Computer Science 11. Three hours.
E-71. T hesis. A special study, usually experimental, in some division of Physics in which the student is interested. Physics, Senior year, first semester. M r. H ower.
103. Advanced Modern Armenian. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 102A-102B-102C. Readings in advanced modern Armenian texts. May be repeated twice for credit.
151 Philosophical Ideas in Literature Philosophical themes as exemplified in literature. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
381 SEMINAR Presentation and discussion by advanced students and staff of current developments and research in the field. Prerequisite: Permission of department chairman. One hour
184 Financial Institutions and Markets Financial in stitutions and credit allocation, determinants of the level and term structure of interest rates, and characteristics of financial institutions and markets. Prerequisite: 180. Three hours.
62 GERMAN LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Lectures on the de velopment of German literature; reading and discussion of representative works. No knowledge of German required. Prerequisite: junior standing. Three hours. Mr. Carpenter.
1, 2 Elementary Hebrew The spoken language of everyday use with oral, aural, and written practice in speaking, reading, and comprehension. Four hours.
12. Shop Work . (2) IL (Credit B) Mr. KIMLrn Furniture construction and repair, upholstering, finishing, and refinishing . Study of period furniture . Construction , methods of laying out various parts ; use of jigs. Methods of preparing and applying paints , stains , and varnishes in finishing and refinishing.
1-905 and 1-906. M achine Composition. Composing machines : their mechanical construction and maintenance, use of dead ma chines supplied for taking down and erection; correlation of the machines to hand work; proper methods of handling and storing machine set type and slugs. While this course is not intended to produce operators, certain students have been quite successful in operating after completing it. First semester; 6 hrs. shop, 6 units. Second semester; 9 hrs. shop, 9 units.
I PLUMBING (Day and Night) Wiping joints of all descriptions; installation of fixtures, water closets, basins, sinks, bath tubs, wash trays, boilers, etc. Making drum traps; working and bending lead, brass and iron pipe; installation of the Durham Drainage system; calking and fitting cast iron soil pipe and general pipe fittings.
M-401. Social Problems of the Cit y. Such problems as housing, public health, poverty, delinquency; inspection visits to agencies and institutions in the Pittsburgh District. Freshman year, first semester; 2 hrs. rec., 3 hrs. field trip, 4 hrs. prep., 9 units.
5A. Intermediate Modern Chinese for Advanced Students. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours; outside study, seven hours. Continuation of course 4A.
E-451 and E-452. E lectrical E ngineering. Elementary principles of Electrical Engineering; measurements of current voltage, power and energy; distribution systems; construction and operating characteristics of direct current motors and generators and auxiliary apparatus; principles of alternat ing currents; construction and operating characteristics of transformers, alter nators; induction motors, and auxiliary apparatus; experiments and tests. Prereq., E-42.
202 ADVANCED MECHANICS (3-0) Development of the foundations of me chanics leading to Hamilton's principle and LaGrange's equations; vibration and stability of systems with many degrees of freedom; gyroscopic effects in me chanical systems; systems with variable co-efficients and non-linear systems. Pre requisite: 252. Three hours.
391, 392, 393, 394 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Investigation of a research topic under the direction of an assigned staff member, culminating in an accept able thesis. Credit as arranged.
250 Microtechnique (1-4) Theory and practice in prep aration of biological materials for anatomical and cytological study, including histochemistry and photomicrography. Pre requisites: Introductory Chemistry; some knowledge of organic chemistry, anatomy, or cytology desirable. Three hours.
302 MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY Fundamentals of pathogenic microbi ology with emphasis on mechanisms of disease production and mechanisms of resistance to infection. The ecologic rather than taxonomic approach is stressed. Prerequisite: permission of the Department. Four hours.
M150. Introduction to Indo-European Linguistics. (4) (Same as Indo-European Studies M150.) Preparation: one year of college-level study (course 3 or better, eight units minimum) of either Greek or Latin and either German or Russian. Survey of Indo-European languages from ancient to modern times; their relationships and chief characteristics.
141 Management Information Systems Integrates computer hardware and software concepts with a classical methodology for developing business information systems. Presents the relevant factors to be considered in the develop ment of information systems and discusses the problems of analyzing, designing, and implementing such systems. Prereq uisites: Computer Science 11, Statistics 141, Math. 20, junior standing. Three hours.
Geography IX: Advanced Physiography This course includes a thorough study of physiographic processes and their resulting land forms, together with the intimate relations between these and human activities. Laboratory and field work receive much attention . Field trips are made to points within easy reach of Los Angeles, and the forms and forces there represented studied. Those who may desire to teach geography in secondary -schools will find this course especially helpful. Prerequisite, same as for Geography II. Five hours. Five units.
221, 222 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD First semester: development of the Ro mantic Movement through Wordsworth and Coleridge; second semester: Byron, Shelley, Keats, and other Romantic poets and prose-writers. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
C-541. Ph ysical E ducation I. Swimming, gymnastics, games and simple folk dances, with special corrective exercises for students for whom the regular work is considered unsuitable. This work is carried on out of doors during the fall and spring of the year, special emphasis being placed on sports (field hockey, volley ball, baseball). Freshman year, first semester; 2 hrs., 2 units.
17,18 Business Law Concepts of law as related to busi ness, including law of contracts, sales, bailments, and negoti able instruments, business and laws of agency, partnerships, and corporations. Sophomore standing. Three hours.
10. THE NINETEENTH CENTURY NOVEL. A critical study of selected novels of the nineteenth century. Two hours,
19. Foundations of Arithmetic. (2) Either half -year . (Credit A, B) Tu Th 8, 10, 11. Assistant Professor GtAmsa. Within a few weeks the class meetings will be reduced to two a week for all students except the few-who require extra review and drill.
132 Legal and Political Environment of Business Interaction of business and society. Emphasis on business roles in the complex and dynamic, legal, political, and social environment. Prerequisites: 60, 61, Economics 11, 12; junior standing. Three hours.
C 206 ab. German VI. Technical journals. Articles chosen from various technical and scientific journals and periodicals form the basis of the reading matter, which is differentiated, as far as is practi cable, according to the choice of engineering course of the student. Exercises in vocabulary and syntax accompany the reading. Sopho more year; first and second quarters; three hours a week. Pre requisite: German V.
54-313, 314 Actors Dance III Fall: 6 units Spring: 6 units Continued development of ballet training as well as concen trated work in tap and free form jazz styles. Advanced work in stage movement and combat. Individual coaching based on problems found in rehearsal and perfor mance.
E-128. E lec t r o c h e m is t r y. Fundamentals of electrochemical systems and reactions, electrolysis, mechanism and electrolytic and metallic conduc tion, Faradays laws, chemical and electrical energy relationships from the thermodynamic standpoint, current and energy efficiencies, electrode poten tials and their determination, endoelectric and exoelectric systems, decom position and deposition, voltages, polarization, overvoltage and overvoltage phenomena; industrial electrochemical processes and products, such as hypochlorites, chlorates, caustic soda and chlorine, electrolytic hydrogen and oxygen, metal refining, electroplating; primary and storage batteries, electric furnace processes and products, such as metallic sodium, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, carbide of calcium, graphite, alundum, carborundum, phosphorus, carbon disulphide. Solution of problems dealing with the commercial phases of the work; visits to industrial plants. Representative commercial processes are demonstrated on a small scale. Prereq., E-112 and E-120. 2 hrs. lec., 3 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 9 units. D r . W a r n e r .
E*-137. T h e C a rb o n Com pounds. Lectures and recitations devoted to a description of representative classes of organic compounds, including a re view of the general reactions in organic chemistry. Particular stress is placed upon the types of compounds and reactions which are of present commercial importance. Elective. Prereq., E-118. Second semester; 3 hrs. lec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
290 Introduction to Pharmacology Consideration of factors which determine the efficacy and safety of drugs em phasizing representative agents used in medicine. Prerequi sites: Introductory course in organic chemistry, background in physiology or health sciences. Three hours.
102. Elementary Algebra for Advanced Students. (3) IL (Credit A, B) M W F, 2. Professor Sunawoon Prerequisite : courses 8 and 9. Selected topics in elementary algebra, with particular reference to modern points of view.
E -1 1 6 . P h y s ic a l C h e m istry . S tates of m atter. G ases: perfect gas law and deviations; kinetic theory of gases and specific heats; chem ical equilibrium in gases. Liquids: critical state; vap or pressures and heats of vaporization; surface tension and viscosity. Solids: X -ra y s and cry stal stru ctu re; B ragg law; specific heats. Solutions of non-electrolytes; R aou lts law and devia tions; colligative properties. Prereq., E -1 0 7 . Chem istry, Chem ical En gi neering, Physical M etallurgy. 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. D r. S e ltz .
50. Chinese Civilization. (4) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Knowledge of Chinese not required. Survey of development of outstanding aspects of Chinese culture from prehistoric to modern times.
158 Business Logistics Management Study of the logistics activities of the firm, focusing on transportation, in ventory control, warehousing, customer service, and site loca tion. Interrelationships between these activities and production
166. A dvanced S tru ctu r es. This course consists of a study of standpipes, high office buildings, arches, cantilevers, continuous sus pension and movable bridges, and the stresses to which they are subjected.
73-359 Benefit-Cost Analysis Fall or Spring: 9 units The evaluation of public and private sector projects. The theory of benefit-cost analysis and related techniques, such as cost-effectiveness analysis. Attention is given to such issues as valuing goods and services that are not normally traded in the marketplace (e.g., the value of an individuals life) and the social rate of discount. Applications are considered in detail. 3 hours recitation. Prerequisite: 73-250.
79-279 232 Civil War and Reconstruction 1840-1880 Units 12
Music III: Songs and Song Material Three hours. Two units.
I-2 ELEMENTARY HEBREW The spoken language of everyday use with oral, aural and written practice in speaking, reading, and comprehension based on memorization of texts in the form of dialogues. Three hours.
A-1025. Practical work in all types of theatrical make-up. *A-1038. Stage M anagem ent. Students of all options have practice stage management in the handling of actual performances, and may have the stage management of an entire production assigned to them, under the producing director, when they have shown sufficient skill in stage work to warrant the assignment.
C -ll, C-12, C-13, and C-14. These courses include the material of C-l, C-2, C-3, and C-4 respectively, and yield the same credit; but the classes meet five (instead of four) times a week. They are required (instead of C-l, C-2, C-3, and C-4 respectively) for students whose earlier work indicates that additional class instruction is desirable. C -ll and C-13, first semester only, C-12 and C-14, second semester only.
181A-181B. Organisation and Management of Physical Education Activities. (2-2) Yr. Miss Thomson , Miss Deane Prerequisite: courses 120,121A -B--c-D.
110. Introduction to Historical Linguistics. (4) Requisites: courses 20, 103, 120A. Methods and theories appropriate to historical study of language, such as comparative method and method of internal reconstruction. Sound change, grammatical change, semantic change.
190. Computer Science Design Project. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Preparation: adequate background in hardware, software, and computer applications. Limited to senior Computer Science and Engineering majors and senior Computer Science majors. Basic concepts of design of projects in computer science, including interpretation of specications, subtasking, design of experiments, data analysis and performance evaluation, cost engineering, reliability, and societal and safety considerations.
C-391. G eneral Econom ics I. A study of the outline of economic theory with special reference to industrial history and the functions of pro duction, consumption, exchange and distribution. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
Mathematics II: Primary Arithmetic A practical study of subject matter and methods of instruction appropriate to the lower grades of the elementary school. The course is. designed particularly for those who intend to specialize in primary teaching. . Five. hours. Five units.
E-60. A dvanced L ight. Physical optics and geometric optics; theory of refraction; dispersion; diffraction, polarimetry. Prereq., E-43. Physics, Junior or Senior year, second semester.
GE-150a, b. C h em ica l Therm odynam ics. A study of the three laws of thermodynamics with particular application to chemical phenomena. The concept of entropy. The free energy function and its relation to spontaneous
144 Philosophical Problems in Medicine Critical and intensive examination of such problems as abortion, euthanasia, dying and death, the ethics of organ transplanta tion, and the ethics of genetic engineering. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
295 Special Topics For advanced students within areas of expertise of faculty. Aspects of ecology, physiology, genetics, cytology, bryology, pteridology, paleobotany, photobiology, membrane physiology, and cell biology. Prerequisite: Permis sion of department.
A-906. Modeling III. A continuation of A-905, working at a larger scale.
120. R a p id P r o d u c t io n M a c h in e r y . These lectures, which are fully illustrated with lantern slides, deal with the development, design, operation, and output of machines used for the shaping, manipulating, and cutting of materials. All wood-working and metal-working machines are included, but special attention is given to machine tools, such as lathes, shapers, planers, drills, milling machines, and precision grinders. The principal parts of each type of machine are considered in detail, and the machine stresses cal culated from tool pressures, where these are known. The composi tions, treatments, and characteristics of both high-speed and
204. Logic, Causation, and Probability. (4) Lecture, four hours. Preparation: two terms of statistics or probability and statistics. Recommended requisite: course 201B. Principles of deductive logic and causal logic using counterfactuals. Principles of probability logic and probabilistic induction. Causal probability logic using directed acyclic graphs.
Education VI: School Hygiene The work of this course consists of lectures. and assigned readings, the following being among the chief topics : Mental hygiene, including the physical basis of fatigue, tests and signs of fatigue , proper alternations of work and rest, home study, sleep, . nervousness , and neurasthenia. The hygiene of the learning. process in reading, spelling, writing, drawing and other subjects. The health of the teacher. The care of the school building. Prerequisite, Psychology I and II. Three hours. Two units.
203 Principles of Physical Education. Principles basic to sound philosophy of physical education for appraisal of historical development; relationship to health education, recreation and other areas; foundation and functions of physical education. Prerequisites: Admission to the program and junior standing. Three hours.
599. Ph.D. Dissertation Research and Preparation. (2 to 8)
A-1329 and A-1330. S ketching and D esign. Graphic repre sentation ; simple problems in space arrangement, page design, de sign of dummies and layouts. Junior year, first and second semes ters ; 1 hr. lec., 2 hrs. prep., 3 units.
C-324. P r o b l e m s o f M o d e r n A m e r i c a n G o v e r n m e n t . A n e x a m in a tio n o f the p resen t fo r m o f A m e ric a n G o v e r n m e n t w ith an em p h a sis o n m o d e r n p r o b le m s. Q u estio n s o f in te re st, su ch as th e re fe re n d u m , recall, p r o p o r tio n a l rep re se n ta tio n , p a r ty o rg a n iza tio n , etc ., w ill b e n o te d , a n d a s tu d y m a d e o f th eir a p p lic a tio n to p resen t g o v e r n m e n t. E le c tiv e fo r S en iors. S e c o n d s e m e s te r ; 3 h rs. rec., 6 h rs. p r e p ., 9 u n its.
6 j. R a il r o a d E c o n o m ic s. T his course is taken b y those students who elect the railroad option and deals w ith th e econo mics of railroad location as affected b y curvature, grade, and other special conditions. Some attention is also given to the organization of the forces and to the m ethod of keeping railroad accounts.
243 DEVELOPMENTS IN LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Analysis of issues in collective bargaining: impact of long-term agreements; shifting wage and related benefits demands; impacts of shifting industrial and occupational structures on collective bargaining; interpretation of federal labor laws in rela tion to collective bargaining procedures; implications, and limits, of mediation and arbitration in disputes settlement. Prerequisite: 242. Three hours
13 Introduction to Logic Study of the basic principles of deductive inference. Three hours.
C-551. H ygiene. Lectures on personal hygiene. Freshman year, first semester; 1 hr. lec., 1 unit.
305 Physiology and Biophysics. Organ systems and mechanisms for maintaining homeostasis. Specific areas of controversy examined. Prerequisites: Permission. Four hours.
Bookbinding I Elementary course dealing with problems suitable to grade work. Five hours. Three units.
J- 6 MAMMALIAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY (2-2) Structure and func tion of the mammalian body, with special reference to man. Dissection, pri marily of the cat; physiological experiments; microscopic study of tissues. Re quired of students in the Nursing and Dental Hygiene curricula, elective to others.3 Three hours.
C-317 and C-318. S o cial and I n d u stria l H isto ry o f t h e U n ited St a t es. European background of A m erican history; survey of the industrial resources of th e U nited S tates; econom ic organization of th e United States before th e industrial revolution; th e rise of th e factory system ; development of a labor class; increase of industrial influence in political developm ent; rise of large scale productive organization; trad e expansion into world m ark et; pre sentation of th e m ost insistent problem s facing th e United S tates to d ay for solution. 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units each semester. P ro fesso r S w a n so n; D r . G r eg g, M e s s r s. D a w e s, A n d r ew s, C h apm an.
GRNS 325. Genetics for Clinicians. 3 Credits. This course provides an overview of contemporary human genetics and genomics with application to clinical practice. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.
201 Architecture and the Environment Introduc tion to basic skills necessary to preserve, document, and re-use America's visible past, its architectural heritage. Students do projects in actual preservation problems in Vermont, Prerequi site: Junior or senior standing. Three hours.
English VI : History of English Literature Outline sketch of the historic development of literature in English, with illustrative readings and study in the successive periods. Five hours. Five units.
GKLT 300. Proseminar. 3 Credits. Introduction to philology. Students will normally take this their first semester.
C-350. E l em e n t a r y E conom ics. A survey of the more important principles underlying the production, consumption, exchange, and distribu tion of wealth, with a discussion of some of the outstanding problems in the field of economics, such as money, banking, monopoly and labor. C-350 does not carry degree credit. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. M r . Ow e n
A-251 and A-252. Stage Craft. Illustrated lectures covering all the mechanical problems of the theatre arts.
160A-160B. Armenian Literature of the 19th and 20th Centuries. (4-4) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 102A-102B-102C. Reading of texts and discussion of various genres of modern Armenian literature within context of the Armenian cultural renaissance.
240 MODERN SHORT STORY Short stories of outstanding modern writers; recent techniques and trends in this type of literature. Limited to seniors, ex cept with permission of the instructor. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours.
231A-231B . Advanced Theory of Social Work Method IV, V. (1/2 course each) Required: Concurrent social work practicum. Advanced-level, critical analysis of theories, concepts and principles underlying social casework practice. Specific attention to deviation and stress as conditions affecting functioning of individuals and groups; and to diagnostic knowledge and competence required in rehabilitation and prevention.
64. G r a p h ic S t a t ic s . This course deals w ith the principles taught in M echanics and Stresses and differs from those subjects only in the substitution of the draw ing board as a m eans of deter m ining the stresses in structures and the accom panying deform a tion.
156. Rural School Organization and Administration. (3) I. (Credit B) M W F, 11. Associate Professor EBY .Prerequisite : Education 155.
126 Current Issues in Management and Organiza tional Theory One and two credit seminars. Subjects in clude performance appraisal, career dynamics, training and development, selection and recruitment, and affirmative ac tion. Prerequisite: 120. One to three hours.
C-35. H istory o f M athematics. Prereq., C-4. First semester; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
168. A dvanced S tr u ctu r es. This course is similar to No. 166, except that less time is devoted to the drawing room work.
143 INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT Principles and practices employed in the direction and operation of industrial organizations. Techniques of organiza tion and control of operations. Personnel function in an industrial structure. Prerequisite: 11-12. Three hours
32. Elements of Nutrition . (2) Either half -year . (Credit B) Professor THOMPSON Prerequisite : six units of natural science. The principles of nutrition and their application in normal and subnormal conditions of growth and physical development.
199. Independent Study for Thesis Writers. (4) Limited to and required of senior European Studies majors. Independent study under supervision of sponsoring professor.
230A-230B-230C. Theory of Social Work Method I, II, III. (1/2 course each) Concurrent social work practicum is required. An introduction to the theory of social work with individuals and small groups and to the principles of practice which are derivative of this and related theory.
144 Data Base Development and Administration Exposes student to data base system development cycle from analysis to design, implementation, and administration. Cen tral focus on complex data structure modeling, data base im plementation and administration. A project involving analysis, design, and implementation required. Prerequisites: 141; 142 or Computer Science 15. Three hours.
596. Individual Study. (2 to 8) Directed individual study or research.
279A-279B-279C. Workshops: Business Organization. (4-4-4) Workshops for predissertation and dissertation writers. Research in progress presented, discussed, and criticized by visiting experts, UCLA faculty members, advanced graduate students.
C-17. Plane G eo m etry. For short course students. Prereq., C-15. First semester; 5 hrs. rec., 10 hrs. prep., 15 units.
281-282 SENIOR SEMINAR Readings and research. Required of all senior concentrators. One hour.
A-776. M e t h o d s B . Application of special techniques, developed in previous years, is made to the various activities of Junior and Senior High School. Principles, procedures and materials appropriate to each activity are considered.
109,110 ELECTRONICS I (3-0), (3-3) Physical principles of vacuum tubes, gas tubes and solid-state devices. Analysis and design of circuits used in communication equipment. Prerequisite: 26 or 102 or physics 242 and departmental permission for 109; and 125 or physics 115 and departmental permission for 110. Three hours for 109, four hours for 110.
5 4 -3 3 1 ,3 3 2 Fall: 9 units Scene Design I Section A Spring: 9 units Studies in problem s of design and the use of the design imagination through assignments in various styles and periods; practice in the use of research techniques of rendering, and the preparation of designer elevations.
388 RESEARCH PROBLEM CONCEPTION AND SOLUTION Indepen dent origination of research problems and the methods of their solution. Re quired of all doctoral candidates. Prerequisite: Permission of department. This course shall be completed at least six months in advance of the Ph.D. thesis defense, and in no case later than the end of the seventh semester of graduate studies at UVM. One hour.
E-510 and E-511. P ower Plants. Generation of heat in furnaces, its transmission to water and steam in boiler; boiler efficiency; boiler room accessories, piping, steam engines, steam turbines, condensers and cooling towers; influence of various items on the cost of power; problems concerning steam power. Prereq., E-501, E-503, E-504,
C-292. I ntroduction to L in g u ist ic s. Fundamentals of linguistic sci ence; principles of the life and growth of languages; families of languages and the interrelations of various language groups; special attention to the main points in the history of English and, as far as possible, of German and of French. Prereq., two years of one foreign language. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
201 POULTRY NUTRITION (3-2) Digestion, absorption and metabolism of nutrients for maintenance, growth and reproduction. Developing and testing experimental concepts, including deficiency studies. Prerequisite: animal and dairy science 105; chemistry 131. Four hours.
191,192 Special Projects (3-0) Investigation of special topic under guidance of faculty member. Library investiga tions, unique design problems, laboratory and field studies. Prerequisites: Senior standing, departmental permission. Three hours.
221 Aging and Social Change Examines effects of social changes on older persons and on the aging process. Also analyzes how an increasing proportion of older persons in the population leads to social change. Prerequisites: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
185. Personnel Psychology. (2) I.
250. Seminar: Arabic Literature. (4) Seminar, two hours. Selected topics from Arabic literature. Readings of texts from manuscript.
291B. Fundamentals and Bubbles in Asset Prices. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 291A. Designed for graduate students. Applications of dynamic general equilibrium to asset pricing in economies with exchange and production. Basic empirical puzzles in U.S. and international asset prices, 1880 to 2000: excess volatility, equity premium and risk-free rate puzzle, predictability. Models of habit formation, asset price bubbles, and limited arbitrage asset pricing theories. Market imperfections and bounded rationality.
255 Water Renovation Processes - Cliemtcal/PhysTcat-(2-3) Theory-of chemical/physical processesior treating waters and wastewaters; mass transfer, coagulation/precipita tion, sedimentation, filtration, mixing, adsorption, ion ex change, membrane processes; pilot plant experimentation. "Prerequisites: 150, 151 or graduate standing. Three hours.
C*-36. F ou riers Series. Study of trigonometric series, with applica tions to heat flow, electric fields, and other problems. Prereq., C-4. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
160 Corporate Financial Reporting A study of cor porate financial accounting and reporting practices, focusing on contemporary issues and controversies. Not open to stu dents who have completed BSAD 162. Prerequisites: 60, junior standing. Three hours.
251. Seminar: Modern Arabic Literature. (4) Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 141. Studies of specic problems and trends in Arabic prose and/or poetry in the 20th century.
76-444 Enlightenm ent Sexualities Fall or Spring: 9 units This course studies two kinds of narratives about sexuality: 1) modern historical narratives about the nature of human sexuality and Its relationship to gender identity and sexual orientation, and 2) eighteenth-century British narratives tha t relate a gendered, personal identity to a story of sexual misconduct or transgression. We begin by looking at how the contem porary com mentors narratlvize the developm ent of modern sexual Identities. We ask questions about how gender Is organized: Does it follow developmental patterns? Is It thought of in oppositional term s (masculine and fem inine as opposites)? What range of possibilities do these histories allow In thinking about gender as an organizing principal of sexual desire? In particular, we will ask w hat significance the eighteenth century, a particularly crucial period of change in all of these historical narratives, has In form ing modern categories of gender and sexual orientation. The main business of the class will then be reading novels and autobiographies w ritten by authors such as Samuel Richardson, Charlotte Charke, John Cleland, Henry Fielding, and Eliza Haywood. What stories about sexuality are told in these texts? How are these stories related to gendered identities and/or identities of sexual orientation? W hat roles do these stories play In defining the lim its for sexual behavior and In form ulating identities based on tha t behavior? In sum , we'll be looking at modern historical narratives of sexuality and gender, particularly as they figure the eighteenth century, and at eighteenth-century British narratives about sex and identity drawn from popular culture.
240 Traffic Engineering Characteristics (3-0) Basic components of highway travel; traffic flow and intersection characteristics; highway and intersection capacities; perfor mance of traffic systems; techniques for measuring traffic char acteristics. Prerequisites: Statistics 141, senior or graduate standing. Three hours.
104. Experimental Phonetics. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 103. Survey of principal techniques of experimental phonetics. Use of laboratory equipment for recording and measuring phonetic phenomena.
A -1 0 0 . A r c h it e c t u r a l D e s i g n . This subject is sub-divided as follows: C l a s s D . ^ F r e s h m a n Y e a r . I n t r o d u c t io n t o D e s i g n . The course begins with simple exercises in the original arrangement of flat geometric shapes in given spaces, proceeds thence to the consideration of simple solids and combinations of these, and, in cooperation with the courses in freehand drawing and graphics, endeavors to instill a thorough understanding of the simple geometric solids which are the basis of architectural forms. From the consideration of the plan projections of these solids, with their surround ing voids, the subject of elementary architectural plan is explored. Materials and simple structures are simply discussed in conjunction with exercises in the making of cardboard models, the common architectural elements are intro duced, and traditional architectural, forms are cited with reference to their development out of function, material, and the demands of aesthetics. C l a s s C . S o p h o m o r e Y e a r . P l a n C o m p o s it io n . A continuation of I n t r o d u c t io n t o D e s i g n involving the architectural study from program of small complete buildings. Conception of parti is introduced through a general discussion of the fundamental principles of planning and the presentation of rendered sketches of small models. The relation, proportions and character of the elements of plan are considered through the demands of function, construction and aesthetics. These sketch problems are followed by problems covering periods of approximately three weeks. Here through further develop ment of the building, details of design, construction, historic forms and orna ment are introduced. 'The number of units awarded in these technical subjects is variable under certain con ditions.
290 THE SOVIET ECONOMY Economic development of the USSR, resource planning and sector growth, geonomic foundation, and foreign economic poli cies. Seminar. Prerequisite: six hours of advanced courses in economics, and six hours of political science or European history; senior standing. Three hours
237 MODERN NOVEL Representative British and American novelists since 1915. Limited to seniors, except with permission of the instructor. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
A-905. Modeling III. A course in modeling from the human figure to develop a working knowl edge of anatomical structure and articulation. Prereq., A-904.
126 ELECTROMECHANICAL ANALOGIES (3-0) Transient behavior of electromechanical systems. Analysis of electrical, mechanical, acoustic and hydraulic circuits by unified methods. Prerequisite: 125 or physics 242 and departmental permission; mathematics 211. Three hours.
285, 286 SPECIAL TOPICS Selected topics of an interdisciplinary nature, designed particularly for advanced undergraduate chemistry majors. Possible subjects include environmental chemistry, chemical technology, chemical economics. Offered as occasions arise. Variable credit.
46. Home Economics Education . (3) I. (Credit B) Miss JoNas Prerequisite : Psychology IA. The early development and present status of home economics education , methods of teaching , criticism of courses.
GRNS 337. Adv Neuropharmacology CNL. 2 Credits. An in depth examination of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs used to treat individuals with acute and chronic pain, neurologic, and psychiatric disorders across the lifespan. This course is part of a two-course sequence for clinical nurse leaders. Prerequisites: GRNS 335, GRNS 336.
3 9 -6 0 0 In te g ra te d P ro d u c t D e v e lo p m e n t F a ll: 12 u n its
211 PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION The field and organization of the per sonnel function; selecting and training employees; job analysis and evaluation; evaluating employees; wages and wage administration; problems of morale; human relations in the supervision of personnel. Prerequisite: 141. Three hours
3 6 -6 2 5 P ro b a b ility and M a th e m a tic a l S ta tis tic s I F a ll: 12 u n its This course Is a fast-paced, rigorous introduction to the m athem atical theory of probability, and statistical inference. It is ideal for students who w ant a crash-course In probability and m athem atical statistics. A good working knowledge of calculus and basic linear algebra is required. Topics include sample sauces, probability, conditional probability, generating functions, sam pling distributions, law of large numbers, the central lim it theorem , m axim um likelihood, the bootstrap, hypothesis testing, Bayesian inference, decision theory. Students studying Com puter Science, or considering graduate w ork in Statistics or Operations Research, should carefully consider taking this course instead of 36-225 after consultation w ith th e ir advisor. Not open to students who have received credit fo r 36-217 or 36-225. P rerequisites: 21118 or 21122 or 21123 or 21256
10. English English Prose Composition and Rhetoric; Themes ; Essays ; Reading of English Prose Literature ; Public Speaking. Two hours,
English V : Advanced Composition Practical constructive work in the various literary forms, particularly those of the greatest utility to the grade teacher. The writing of the short story. .Planning, outlining, and writing themes in exposition and description. Self-cultivation in English. Three hours. Three units.
E-130. H isto ry of C h em ist r y. History of chemical science; its crude beginnings; the development through the alchemistic, iatro and phlogiston periods; the development of the inductive method and the part contributed by chemistry. Prereq., E-112, E-120. 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. D r. A l e x a n d e r .
M 12 n. Chemistry lib. The first half of this course is a continua tion of 11a, while the latter half is devoted to the study of organic compounds. 10 units; 2 lec.; 6 hrs. lab. for 1 quarter.
157 Marketing Research The role of research in a marketing information framework. Emphasis on data collec tion methodology. Prerequisites: 154, Statistics 141. Three hours.
79-220 Problems in American History Units 12 An investigation in depth of selected problems in American history in the area of specialization of the current instructor.
E-5S and E-56. Same as E-53 and E-54. Physics, Senior year, first and second semesters. M r. H ower.
294 HISTORY OF NUTRITION (See Home Economics 294). One hour.
GS497 Graduate Laboratory First and second semester, units to be assigned This course offers qualified graduate students opportunity to gain first-hand research ex perience by assisting in research conducted by staff members. 6 units minimum each semester except with special permission.
82-455/6 Studies in Spanish and Offered intermittently: Latin American Literature 9 units A series of inquiries into an aspect of Spanish or Latin American literature, such as a literary movement, a genre, a theme, or the work of a single author (e.g., Romanticism, Contemporary Theatre, Don Juan, Octavio Paz et al). 2-3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-342 or equivalent.
203. Integrative Theory and Research in Human and Social Behavior. (1/2 course) An integrative course which brings together the preceding courses in the human behavior and the social environment series, by examination at an advanced level of the major theoretical strands and the identification of problem areas requiring further research.
M-21. G eneral M icrobiology. Introduction to the study of the bacteria, yeasts and molds; discussion of the morphology and physiology of micro organisms and their economic and industrial importance; study and identifica tion of the bacteria, yeasts and molds; bacteria in the spoilage and preservation of food, and their relationship to disease. Prereq., E-112.
202. History of Education in the United States . (2) II. Mr . Wooton A survey of educational ideas and practices in the history of the United States .
A-240. Production I. Sophomore Year: The designing, planning, and execution involved in the preparation for each major production of the following kinds of work; scene construction, scene painting, costumes, lights, properties; the supervision and running of rehearsals and performances both backstage and in the front of the house from the standpoint of stage management, house management and book holding.
*74. The Teaching of Junior High School Mathematics. (3) I. (Credit B). M W F, S. Assistant Professor Coitiisa
287A. Economic Problems of Latin America. Economic history of Latin America. The great depression, import substitution and industrialization, ination and growth, free market experiments, and economic integration.
1-746. A d v a n c e d P r o d u c tio n M e th o d s . Carbonizing; compo sition and selection of carbonizing material and oils ; appreciation of art, with reference to art forging, coloring ; adaptability and design of electric ; gas, lead and oil furnaces ; study of hardening room methods in local plants ; selection of hardening room equipment ; fur nace practice covering a large selection of high gradei tools and dies ; inspection; testing. Second semester; 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. shop, 6 units.
388 SEMINAR IN STUTTERING Study of adult and child fluency disorders which focuses upon symptomatology, etiology, diagnosis and rehabilitation of stuttering patients. Prerequisite: 271. Three hours. Guitar.
M178. Contrastive Analysis of Japanese and Korean. (4) (Same as Japanese CM127 and Korean CM127.) Lecture, three hours. Preparation: two years of Japanese or Korean, one introductory linguistics course. Critical reading and discussion of selected current research papers in syntax, pragmatics, discourse, and sociolinguistics from perspective of contrastive study of Japanese and Korean.
C-185 and C-186. E nglish L iterature. Selected masterpieces: lectures and outside reading. First and second semesters; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
GRK 201. Greek Orators. 3 Credits. Selected speeches of Lysias and Demosthenes.
195. Senior Essay. (4) Limited to senior linguistics majors. Extended piece of writing is undertaken on a linguistic topic selected by the student to be completed under supervision of a faculty member.
9A 9B. Shop Work . (2-2) Yr., (Credit A, B) Mr. PHII.LlPs Lecture, Th, 12, and five hours laboratory. Metal work in metal.
201 FARM BUSINESS MANAGEMENT Organization and operation of successful farm businesses with emphasis on resource allocation, production ef ficiency, and marginal analysis. Field trips required. Prerequisite: 61 or Economics 12; Junior standing; College of Agriculture major. Three hours.
291A. General Equilibrium and Finance. (4) Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Introduction to mathematical nance from general equilibrium viewpoint. CAPM and static equilibrium models. Intertemporal models in discrete and continuous time. Spanning, option prices, and derivatives. Martingales, random walks, and market efciency.
E-126. Chem ical Engineering. A study of commercial types of apparatus and structural elements used in chemical manufacturing processes and the materials employed. Theory and design of equipment dealing with combustion, fuels, heat transmission and economy; recuperators, regenerators, gas producers, furnaces, chimneys, etc., gas absorption and scrubbing towers, filtration, evapora tion, extraction and drying; humidification, distillation, rectification and column design; pumps, compressors, blowers, exhausters, grinders, pulverizers and re frigerating apparatus; temperature and pressure regulating apparatus. Technical problems of production, including historical, chemical and manufacturing phases of the work; design, layout, specifications, etc., for both plant and equipment; organization and personnel for operation. Prereq., E-110, E-112 and E-116.
C*-23. A lg eb ra I. Development of the number system of algebra; theory of algebraic equations, including such topics as cubic and quartic equations, fundamental theorem of algebra, symmetric functions, reciprocal equations, and equations with numerical coefficients. Prereq., C-3, with which, how ever, it may be taken concurrently. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. Offered in 1941-42, and thereafter in alternate years.
172. M aso n r y a n d D e s ig n. T his course is a continuation of No. 171.
C-531. P h y s ic a l E d u c a t io n I. Swimming is required of all students. This includes instruction in diving, form swimming, stunts and water games. Archery, field hockey and speedball are taught during the fall and spring sea sons. Gymnastics based on the work of Niels Bukh; interpretive dancing, folk dancing, games, and restricted work for those needing special attention because of medical restriction are given during the indoor season. Freshman year, first semester, 2 hrs., 2 units.
E-101 and E-102. G eneral Ch em istry. Fundamental laws and conceptions of Chemistry; systematic study of typical non-metallic elements and com pounds; behavior of solutions; relations and reactions of acids, bases and salts in the light of the electrolytic dissociation theory; important industrial processes such as bleaching, soda, sulphuric and nitric acids, industrial gases, petroleum products, electric-furnace products, iron and steel, alloys, glass; cement, treatment of water for industrial purposes. Facts and practical data are given and principles explained and illustrated in the lectures. The laboratory work comprises a series of about fifty experiments illustrating the practical ap
313 SEMINAR ON ENDOCRINE PHYSIOLOGY The course will be de voted to a study of current problems in endocrine research with major emphasis on the molecular mechanism of action of hormones. Prerequisites: 301 or En docrinology 271; Biochemistry 301-302; permission of instructor. Three hours.
281, 282 Botany Seminar Presentations of personal research by faculty, graduate students, and outside guest speakers. Required attendance of Botany graduate students and seniors in botanical research programs.
102A. Business Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, two hours; outside study, eight hours. Preparation: three years of college-level Chinese. Advanced course designed to develop speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills in modern Chinese in business-related contexts and to gain awareness of cultural concepts and values in Chinese business practice and behavior.
155. Rural Society and Education. (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) M W F, 10. Associate Professor EBY
A-785 and A-786. M e t h o d s f o r C l a s s P ia n o w i t h C h i l d r e n s E u r y t h m i c s . A laboratory course comprising the application of class piano me thods correlated with elementary Dalcroze eurythmics. Practice teaching in both piano and eurythmics is given by students under supervision to a limited number of kindergarten and grade school children. A part of each period is devoted to class discussion of methods and material. Prereq., A-723-4 and A-803-4 (Piano).
5 4 -3 2 1 ,3 2 2 Fall: 4 -6 units Directing I Spring: 4 -6 units Study of the principles and techniques of play direction; with demonstrations and exercises.actor.
GRNS 400. Population-Based Hlth for APN. 3 Credits. The role of advanced practitioners in the care of populations with an emphasis on the U. S. health care system. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.
150A. Lyrical Traditions. (4) Lecture, three hours; outside study, nine hours. Readings in English translation from poetic, critical, and essayistic writings of traditional China, with emphasis on development of subjectivity and modes of address.
227A- 227B-227C. Comparative Social Welfare Theories and Programs. Prerequisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Analysis of interrelationships between nations' welfare services and the social, economic, religious, and broader cultural milieus within which they develop. Special attention to social theories, value systems, and other elements of culture which particularly affect welfare programs.
165A. Phonology II. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 120A (undergraduates with grade of A in course 120A may replace course 165A with 200A, with consent of instructor). Further study in phonological theory and analysis: autosegmental theory, syllable structure, metrical theory, interface of phonology and grammar.
C-337 and C-338. H istory II. M odern H istory. Europe from the fifteenth to the twentieth century; Renaissance; Protestant Revolution and Wars of Religion; decay of the Holy Roman Empire; French Revolution and Napoleonic era; development of England, France, Italy, and Germany in the nineteenth century; genesis of the World War. First and second semesters; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
C-341 and C-342. H istory o f th e U nited States. Explorations and dis coveries leading to the colonization of America; growth of industry, agriculture, commerce, transportation, population, and labor from the simple agricultural communities of the colonies to the highly complex industrial and commercial society of today; special emphasis on the social economic development of the United States since 1865. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. Omitted 1926-27. Alternates with C-347 and C-348.
280A-280B. Seminars: Indo-European Linguistics. (4-4) Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 210. Selected topics in Indo-European comparative grammar for advanced graduate students.
54-361, 362, 461, 462 Fall: 6 -1 5 units Production III, IV Spring: 6 -1 5 units Advanced students are assigned positions as head or assistant head of various technical crews, i.e, lights, costumes, proper ties, paints, stage management, house manager, head usher.
EDHE 319. Internshp Specializd Personnel. 1-12 Credits. Students will undertake an approved internship in an institution which reflects the particular area of interest and needs of the student. Prerequisite: Instructor permission.
250A-250B. European Archaeology. (4-4) Seminar, three hours. Studies in ancient European archaeological materials and their relationship to Near East, Western Siberia, and Central Asia. May be repeated for credit. In Progress (250A) and S/U or letter (250B) grading.
GRNS 401. Hlth Care Serv Design Implemen. 3 Credits. Planning and implementation of programs, projects or systems of health care delivery. Prerequisite: GRNS 322.
153 HOME MANAGEMENT RESIDENCE Practical application of home man agement and group living in the Home Management Residence. A charge of $87.50 is made to cover partial cost of board and operating expenses. Students not living on campus are charged for room rent proportional to that paid by students in University residence halls. Prerequisite: 101, 137. Three hours.
256 Advanced Plant Genetics Review of major topics in higher plant genetics and cytogenetics. Designed to be ap plied to the systematics, breeding, and gene engineering of higher plants. Prerequisite: 132 or Biology 101. Three hours.
249 Solid Wastes (3-0) Significance of solid wastes from municipal, industrial, agricultural, mining; optimization and design of collection, disposal, recycle systems; sanitary landfills, incineration, composting, material recovery. Prereq uisites: Chemistry 5, Physics 25. Three hours.
M 15 ab. Quantitative Analysis. The nature of the work done in this course will be varied according to the branch of work in which the student intends to specialize. For laboratory hours, see the re quirements for science students of different classes.
11. English American Literature and History. Lectures; Assigned Readings; Essays. Two hours,
9. English English Prose Composition and Rhetoric; Themes ; Essays ; Reading of English Prose Literature ; Public Speaking. Two hours,
150A-150B. Survey of Armenian Literature in English. (4-4) Lecture, three hours. Knowledge of Armenian not required. Each course may be taken independently for credit.
1034. Advanced Infantry Training. (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) tTu Th, 8, 11, 1. Assistant Professors Owaxs, CHRISTIAN Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course; instruction in military sketching, military field engineering , military law, and rules of land warfare.
M150. Introduction to Indo-European Linguistics. (5) (Same as Linguistics M150.) Lecture, four hours. Recommended requisite: Linguistics 1 or 20. IndoEuropean languages (ancient and modern), including their relationships, chief characteristics, writing systems, and sociolinguistic contexts; nature of reconstructed Indo-European proto-language and protoculture. One or more Indo-European languages may be investigated in detail.
400A. Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course. (8) Discussion, eight hours. Primarily designed for environmental science and engineering doctoral students. Multidisciplinary technical and socioeconomic analysis and prognosis of signicant current environmental problems.
171. M a so n r y a n d D e s ig n . This course is similar to No. 170, except that the treatment of some of the topics is shortened.
205. Indo-European Phonology. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: course M150, Linguistics 110. Study of proto-Indo-European phonology and its historical development into most important of oldest attested descendant languages.
PLANE ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY. (ELECTIVE) Prerequisite : University entrance credit in Elementary Algebra, Plane and Solid Geometry , and Normal School Mathematics II and III. Homogeneous coordinates ; including line coordinates ; projective properties of conics ; systems of conics; introduction to general theory of curves; discussion of the general equation of the second degree; some problems of higher loci. Three hours for one semester.
304 Physiology and Biophysics. Cellular Biophysics with emphasis on the underlying mechanisms of excitation, membrane trans port, and muscular contraction. Current research directions discussed. Prerequisites: Permission. Four hours.
A-240. Production II and III. Junior and Senior Years: Advanced students are assigned positions as head or assistant head of various technical crews, i.e., lights, costumes, properties, paints, stage man agement, etc. 2-16 units each semester.
E-503. E lem ents of M echanical E ngineering. Principles and practice in the combustion of solid, liquid and gaseous fuels; special emphasis on the use of fuels for steam generation in power plants. Combustion calculations to illustrate the theoretical possibilities and practical limitations of the various fuels. Brief discussion of steam engine valve gears, using the Zeuner and Sweet diagrams preparatory to a study of the steam engine in the Junior year. Prereq., C-2.
67. St r u c t u r e s. Under this head are taken up for class-room discussion the m ethods of m aking beam s, colum ns, and ties from the raw structural materials, wood, w rought iron, steel, cast iron, and
180B. Administration of community recreation . Designed to meet the needs of recreation leaders in playgrounds, industrial organizations , and social service institutions.
174 INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING (3-0) Principles of industrial organization, plant facilities and layout, production and quality control, motion and time study, wage incentives and job evaluation. Prerequisite: Inspection trip. Three hours.
3R. Reading and Writing of Elementary Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours; outside study, seven hours. Preparation: uent speaking and listening skills in Mandarin Chinese. Training in reading and writing skills at elementary level. Students fulll one-year foreign language requirement by completing this course.
211 ADVANCED MECHANICAL STRUCTURES I (3-0) The torsion problem and membrane analogy; thick cylinders and rotating discs; beams on elastic foundation and the bending of plates and shells. Prerequisite: 252, Math. 211. Three horns.
142 Structured Business Programming COBOL Fundamental principles of business computer programming. Topics include: the constructs of structured programming, topdown and modular development, sequential and nonsequen tial access techniques, other features of the COBOL language. Programming exercises include data editing, reporting, and file updating. An on-line program development mode used. Pre requisite: 141. Three hours.
135. Dance Accompaniment . (2) I. Miss Deane Prerequisite : course 35. Advanced study in music analysis for dance . Development in percussion accompaniment.
123 ELECTRONICS II (3-3) Analysis and design of wave shaping, timing and logic circuitry using solid state and vacuum tube devices. Prerequisite: 110. Four hours.
C-465. B u sin ess L a w . General principles of the law of contracts, negoti able instruments, agency, bailments, and employers liability. Offered each semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
381, 382 GRADUATE SEMINAR Readings, conferences, and reports in con nection with the work of candidates for the M.A. degree. Three hours.
66. S t r u c t u r a l M e c h a n ic s. T his course is based on the w ork in Applied M echanics and consists in the application of the princi ples taught in th at subject to som e of th e special problem s w ith which the civil engineer has to deal in the design and erection of engineering structures.
215. Indo-European Syntax. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 210. Comparative and historical study of syntax in proto-Indo-European and most important of oldest attested descendant languages.
121 Selected Topics in Organizational Behavior Focuses on ways in which individuals and work groups within _organizations can be better utilized as organizational resour ces. Prerequisites: 120. Three hours.
168. Abnormal Psychology . (3) I, II . Mr. Goldstein , Mr. Tomlinson Study of the dynamics and prevention of abnormal behavior, including neuroses, psychoses , character disorders, psychosomatic reactions and other abnormal personality patterns.
C-268. A esthetics. Lectures, readings, and papers covering the most important contributions, theoretical and experimental, on the nature of the aesthetic experience. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
1-896. Cost A ccounting. A course covering the elements of courses 1-893 and 1-894, especially arranged for students of the Building Construction D epartm ent.
M-425. Case W ork II. Principles of case work. Analysis of situation of family in distress and its social treatment. Problems of the neglected and de pendent child, the retarded and mentally deficient, the physically handicapped, and the delinquent child. Investigation; diagnosis; use of personal and com munity resources of relief and rehabilitation; childrens agencies; institutional homes; child placing; co-operation with other social agencies. In conjunction with M-423 and M-424. Required for Social Work. Junior year, first semes ter; 4 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 12 units.
1-742. F o r g e P r a c t ic e . Repairing shop equipment ; power hammer forging on straight bars and shapes ; special welding, use and composition of fluxes ; cause and prevention of minor defects ; developing simple production tools ; case hardening ; design and adaptability of various types of power hammers ; laying out. First or second semester ; 4 hrs. shop, 4 units.
English XI: .Language . Teaching in the Intermediate Grades Grammar and composition. Use of. the State text-books in English. Three hours. Three units.
C*-26. Geom etry II. Types of homogeneous coordinates, abridged nota tion; poles and polars, harmonic properties; higher plane curves; other selected topics in algebraic geometry. Prereq., C-25. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. Offered in 1942-43, and thereafter in alternate years.
103n. Advanced Infantry Training . (3) Either half -year . (Credit A, B) tM Tu W Th F, 8, 11. Assistant Professor $a&ru Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course; instruction in machine gun theory of fire , direct and indirect fire, barrage firing , and tactical handling in the offense and defense.
150A. Animal Psychology. (3) I. Mr. Krasne A survey of the determinants of species-specific behavior including genetic influences and learning.
160. Vocational Education . (3) I. (Credit 13) Mr. JOHNSON
275 Methods of Data Analysis in Social Research Quantitative analysis of sociological data; includes table, regression, and path analysis, scaling and factor analysis, and the analysis of variance emphasizing multivariate techniques. Prerequisite: 100 or equivalent with permission of instructor. Three hours.
C-101 and C-102. E n glish. (Lower) Review of grammar, spelling, punctua tion, sentence structure; business letter writing; public speaking; outside read ing; individual conferences. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec,, 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
151 POULTRY BREEDING (2-0) Analysis of the procedure and techniques of practical application of genetic principles used in poultry breeding. Trap nesting, selection pressures, heritability, mating systems. Prerequisite: 1. Two hours.
199. Special Studies in Linguistics. (2 to 4) Requisites: courses 120A, 120B.
10A-10B. Shop Work. (2-2) Yr . (Credit B) Mr. Saga Bench work in wood . Fundamental tool and joinery operations; care and operation of power machinery.
234 Ecology of Freshwater Algae (2-3) Environmen tal factors influencing distribution and seasonal succession; quantitative methods for estimating standing crop productivity; kinetics of algal growth; competitive and synergistic interac tions. Prerequisite: 160 or Biology 102. Three hours.
255 Sociology of Mental Health Analysis of the social structures and processes involved in the identification, defini tion, and treatment of mental illness and its sociocultural etiology and consequences. Prerequisite: Six hours of soci ology. Three hours.
212B. Queueing Applications: Scheduling Algorithms and Queueing Networks. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course 212A. Priority queueing. Applications to time-sharing scheduling algorithms: FB, Round Robin, Conservation Law, Bounds. Queueing networks: denitions; job ow balance; product form solutions local balance, MM; computational algorithms for performance measures; asymptotic behavior and bounds; approximation techniques diffusion iterative techniques; applications.
1-921. B indery. Methods of folding, stitching and trimming; development of the binders craft studied by lecture, demonstration and practice. First semester; 3 hrs., 3 units.
281 A-281 B-281 C. Advanced Social Welfare Research. (1/2 course each) Credit to be given only at the completion of the sequence. Group research projects requiring intensive examination and analysis of a social problem area directed toward the development of research knowledge and techniques for social work practice. This course is offered on an In Progress basis, which requires students to complete the full three-quarters sequence, at the end of which time a grade is given for all quarters of work.
*183A- 1888. Introduction to International Law. (3-3 ) Yr. (Credit A, B) Associate Professor MABrtr The general principles of international law as developed by custom and agreement , and as exhibited in decisions of international tribunals and municipal courts, diplomatic papers , treaties and conventions, in legislation , in the works of authoritative writers , and in the conduct of nations. Group III . National Government
271B. Requisite: course 271A. Study of rm organization and pricing under conditions of less than perfect competition; information costs and advertising; economic and legal analysis of marketing practices such as discrimination, tie-in selling, resale price maintenance, exclusive dealing, and territorial arrangements.
A-257 and A-258. Stage Design II. Studies in problems of stage design; techniques of rendering and the preparation of working drawings; the use of research. Students submit designs for the major productions either on a competitive basis or on assignment.
165B. Syntax II. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 120B. Recommended for students who plan to do graduate work in linguistics. Form of grammars, word formation, formal and substantive universals in syntax, relation between syntax and semantics.
272A-272Z. Topics in Industrial Organization. (4 each) Lecture, three hours. Current research in industrial organization.
102 EXTENSION METHODS (1-2) Methods and techniques of extension teaching. Prerequisite: junior standing. Two hours. Mr. Davison.
Geography VI: Africa and Australia Causes and influences of the great forests and deserts. The mineral wealth. Colonial possessions. Development of industries and routes of travel. Prerequisite, same as for Geography II.. Five hours. Five units.
161. The Psychology of Exceptional Children. (3) II Mr. Lovaas Prerequisite : course 112 or the equivalent. A study of the nature, diagnosis , and treatment of exceptional disabilities and problem behavior in individual children or special groups.
136 Political Risk and the International Corpora tion Analysis of how the international corporation monitors and manages political risk on international business opera tions. Prerequisite: 132 or permission of instructor. Three hours.
280. Social Welfare Research. (1/2 course) Sources, nature and uses of social work theory and researchbased knowledge and of broader social data relevant to social welfare activities. Critical analysis of major methods of developing scientific knowledge.
A - l l and A - 1 2 . H is t o r y o f A r c h i t e c t u r e . Illustrated lectures and assigned reading covering the progress of architectural art through the his torical styles.
495. Teaching College Economics. (2) Seminar, one hour; laboratory, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Required of all new teaching assistants. Classroom practice in teaching, with individual and group instruction on related educational methods, materials, and evaluation.
200. Epidemiology I. (4) Lecture, two hours; laboratory, four hours. Preparation: one full biological sciences course. Requisite: Biostatistics 100A (may be taken concurrently). Not open for credit to students with credit for course 100. Introduction to epidemiology, including factors governing health and disease in populations.
12. English English Literature and History. Lectures ; Assigned Readings; Essays. Two hours,
233 Rural Planning
14. MODERN DRAMA. The origin and development of American drama with a study of leading European dramatists. The course includes readings of representative plays, the new art of drama and the theatre. Two hours,
596. Directed Individual Study. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
101A-101B-101C. Elementary Berber. (4-4-4) Lecture, three hours; laboratory, two hours. Development of oral prociency and analysis of basic grammatical structure.
251 Environmental Facilities Design-Wastewater (2-3) Design of wastewater conveyance and treatment facil ities; sewage treatment plant design; equipment selection. Pre requisite: 151. Three hours.
1-817 and 1-818. A utomotive Service P ractice. T his is a com panion course to A utom otive Engineering Theory and gives the student actual practice in engine (autom obile and aircraft) overhaul, bearing adjustm ent, valve tuning, etc., and repair and adjustm ent of the airplane and autom o bile for the work it is designed to perform. In all cases current practice is followed.
291 Special Problems. Reading, discus sion, and special field and/or laboratory in vestigations. Prerequisite: Departmental permission. Students may enroll more than once for a maximum of twelve hours. One to six hours.
GE659 Heat Flow in Metallurgical Processes Second semester, 8 units An engineering treatment emphasizing understanding and application rather than mathe matical derivation of solutions. Steady and unsteady conduction by analytical, numerical and graphical methods; radiation, including complex geometry; and convection heat transfer. Problems and applications in heating and quenching of metals, pyrometry and metallurgi cal furnaces and heat exchangers. Prereq., E622, or equivalent. 2 hrs. lec.
313 Seminar on Endocrine Physiology. The course will be devoted to a study of current problems in endocrine research with major emphasis on the molecular mecha nism of action of hormones. Prerequisites: 304-305 or Endocrinology 271; Biochem istry 301-302; permission of instructor. Three hours.
82-281 Masterpieces of Continental Offered intermittently: Literature in English Translation 9 units The objective of this course is to acquaint the student with a number of great literary achievements of continental Europe read in English translation. These works will be explored for their literary style and content and for their import as mirrors of their times.
253 Curriculum Design in Health and Physical Education. Philosophy, tech niques of curriculum innovation in health and physical education. Inter-relationships between student needs and interests, teach ing methodology, evaluative procedures, community involvement, administrative or ganization patterns. Prerequisites: Junior standing and 104, 105, 46 or 155. Three hours.
82-415/6 Offered intermittently: Studies in French Literature 9 units A series of inquiries into an aspect of French literature, such as literary movement, a genre, a theme, a sociological study, or the work of a single author, (e.g., Classicism, Existentialism, Negritude, Women, Voltaire, et al). 2-3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite 82-302 or equivalent.
A-1721 and A-1722. Industrial M odelling.
2. Elementary Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours. Continuation of course 1.
205. Statistics. This course is intended to familiarize the student with the sources of statistical information concerning man ufacture and trade, and to give him practice in gathering and pre senting statistical data. The lectures include a critical examination of the chief sources, especially trade journals and government reports, a brief course in the theory of statistics, and a statement of the principles to be observed in planning a diagrammatic pre sentation of statistical material. Attention is given to the utiliza tion of statistical records of industrial corporations by the man agers of the corporations. In the statistical laboratory each student is assigned one or more problems closely related to his chosen line of work. He gathers statistical information on his assigned topic from the best sources available. He then draws up a formal report, giving accu rate references for all the statistics quoted and stating clearly what the significant figures are and what inferences are to be drawn from them.
172A- 172B. Psychology of Music. (34) Yr. Mr. Petran A study of the psychological factors and problems in music from the points of view of the listener , performer, and composer.
9 Ancient Mediterranean Civilization Detailed study of Athens in the 5th century B.C., continuing to the rise of Rome through the first century A.D. (Students who have already taken 106 may not take 9.) Three hours.
273 Cataloging and Classification. Pre requisite: EDLS 272 or equivalent. Three hours.
82-341/2 Fall: 9 units Spanish Conversation and Composition or Spring: 9 units Intensive linguistic practice progressing from controlled patterns in speech and writing to free discussion and composition. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-242 or equivalent.
M222. Control and Coordination in Economics. (4) (Same as Economics M222A.) Lecture, three hours. Recommended preparation: appropriate mathematics course. Designed for graduate economics and engineering students. Stabilization policies, short- and long-run dynamics and stability analysis; decentralization, coordination in teams; certainty equivalence and separation theorems; stochastic and learning models. Bayesian approach to price and output rate adjustment.
230A-230B-230C. Elementary Classical Armenian. (4-4-4) (Formerly numbered 130A-130B.) Lecture, three hours. Course 230A is requisite to 230B, which is requisite to 230C. Introduction to grammar of the classical literary language (5th to mid-19th century) and guided readings in narrative prose texts.
Education V : School Law In this. course practice in the keeping of a school register in a legal way is given each student. Attention is also centered on the provisions of the State Constitution concerning education, and the closely related .portions of the Political Code. Emphasis is laid on the legal duties of superintendents , boards of education , school. trustees, and teachers , and on the financial support of our common schools. One hour. One unit.
212A. Queueing Systems Theory. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisites: course 112, Electrical Engineering 131A. Resource sharing issues and theory of queueing (waiting-line) systems. Review of Markov chains and baby queueing theory. Method of stages. M/Er/1. Er/M/1. Bulk arrival and bulk service systems. Series-parallel stages. Fundamentals of open and closed queueing networks. Intermediate queueing theory: M/G/1; G/M/m. Collective marks. Advanced queueing theory: G/G/1; Lindley integral equation; spectral solution. Inequalities, bounds, approximations.
386 METHODS OF CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION Introduction to ad vanced modern chemical methods. Prerequisite: Permission of department. Two hours.
200 DISCRETE SIMULATION See Civil Engineering 227.
Music II: Theory Construction of scales and chords. Terminology. Method of sight singing and dictation. Five hours. Five units.
121 Chinese Philosophy I Study of the Classical Schools of Chinese thought, including Confucianism, Taoism, Mohism, and Legalism. Prerequisite: One course in philo sophy, religion, or Asian studies. Three hours.
140 Social and Political Philosophy Analysis of such fundamental theories and problems in social and political thought as political obligation, rights, and justice. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
597. Individual Study: Graduate Examinations. (2 to 8) Directed individual study in preparation for M.A. comprehensive examination or Ph.D. qualifying examinations.
E-508. T h er m o d yn am ics. Thermal and dynamic properties of gases and saturated vapors; flow of gases and vapors; theoretical foundation for courses in power plants, compressors and refrigeration. Prereq., C-4, E-43, E-221.
170. Principles of Secondary Education. (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) M W F, 3. Assistant Professor SMITH Prerequisite : Education 148. Limited to seniors.
A-775. M e t h o d s A. The observation method. The transition from imitative singing to knowledge of staff notation and independent reading. The theory material and procedure by which a technique is developed in the first six school years.
A-241 and A-242. The Theater. An orientation course in the methods of theatrical production and the problems of the theater.
1. EnglishPractical English Grammar; Language Exercises; Spelling; Reading. Four hours.
271C. Mathematical Theory in Industrial Organization. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 201A, 201B, 201C. Formal modeling of theory of industrial organization: principal-agent problem, entry deterrence, endogenous price discrimination, monopolistic competition, new approaches to rationality.
C 205 abc. German V. Scientific and technical German. The course consists of three different parts that run parallel throughout the year: (1) reading in a graded scientific and technical reader; (2) review of German inflections and syntax by means of exercises based on the text, with special attention to those constructions that are peculiar to scientific German; (3) thorough study of word-formation, aiming to develop ability to read at sight; the word-formation is followed by a brief study of cognates and the interrelation of English and German. Freshman year; three quarters; three hours a week. Prerequisite: two years of high school German.
A-1316. A rt Interpretation. Study and interpretation of the various ideas and ideals of the most significant periods of archi tecture; evolution of boith construction and ornamemtative features of the past and a study of modern examples showing the influence of earlier types; analysis of certain principles of design; color har mony. Junior year, second semester; 2 hrs. lab., 1 hr. prep., 3 units.
302 Neuroscience. A correlated presenta tion of the neuroanatomy and neurophysi ology of mammalian CNS. Same course as Anatomy 302. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. Four hours. Anatomy and Physiology Staff.
391, 392, 393, 394 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Investigation of a research topic under the direction of assigned staff member, culminating in an acceptable thesis. Credit as arranged.
G108 GERMAN LITERATURE: THE 20TH CENTURY. Three hours. II Reading in class of selected works, mainly dramas, exemplifying Ex pressionism and New Reality; collateral reading of typical short stories and novels. (Offered in alternate years, 1952-53.) Prerequisite: 101-102.
125. Foreign Relations of the United States . (3) L (Credit A, B) Assistant Professor GLASAu Leading American foreign policies as regards Europe, Latin America and the Far East ; the administration of American foreign relations ; American participation in international administrative and judicial agencies.
A-255 and A-256. Stage Design I. Studies in the principles of design and the limitations of the stage; selection of elements, scale and proportion, composition, free-hand perspective and mechanical drawing; color and lighting; practical work in model making.
78. E l e c t r i c a l M e a s u r e m e n t s L a b o r a t o r y . T his course runs parallel with the lecture courses Principles of D irect Cur rents and Theory of Electrical M easurem ents and is an appli cation of these courses to m easurem ents of electrical and m agnetic quantities, special stress being laid upon m ethods applicable to commercial tests. The course also includes a series of selected experim ents in precision measurem ents and standardization.
180A . Administration of physical education. Administrative policies of the physical education department in schools and colleges ; equipment, appointment and supervision of staff ; teaching load ; organization and administration of activities ; classification of pupils by tests and examination; grading; general office organization and administration.
162 ADVANCED ACCOUNTING Accounting for partnerships, ventures, con signments, installment sales, insurance, statement of affairs, receivers, realization and liquidation, estates, trusts, home offices and branches, and parent and sub sidiary accounting. Prerequisite: 161. Three hours
241 Transportation Systems Engineering (3-0) Interdisciplinary aspects of transportation systems; mathemati cal analysis and synthesis of system problems; economic con siderations; fiscal studies and financial planning; administra tion of transportation systems. Prerequisites: Statistics 141, senior or graduate standing. Three hours.
9A-95. Differential and Integral Calculus . (3-3) Yr . (Credit A, B) Assistant Professor WoamffixamoN Prerequisite : Mathematics 5.
3. English Review of English Grammar; Elementary Eng lish Composition; Spelling; Reading. Four hours,
133 Government and Business Interaction of busi ness and government. Emphasis on industrial concentration and power, history and enforcement of legislation, and con flicting goals of economic efficiency and political feasibility. Prerequisite: 132. Three hours.
242A- 24233. Education in the Postwar Period . (2-2) Yr. Mr. -Morrisett and Staff A consideration of the factors which may influence public education in the postwar years and the development of plans and programs based on the findings . Open to superintendents of schools , principals, other administrative officers , and qualified graduate students.
131. Armenian Civilization in Cilician Period, 1080 to 1375. (4) Lecture, four hours. Interdisciplinary investigation of rise and fall of unique form of Armenian polity established outside the homeland and examination of degree to which its social structure and cultural and aesthetic norms were impacted by those of the West (Byzantium, Western Europe) and East (Crusader states, Seljuqs, Mamluks, Mongols).
German I A thorough study of the fundamental principles of German grammar, the translation of prose and poetry (approximately of the amount and quality as in Hewett's or Thomas and Hervey 's German . Reader), the writing of graded exercises in German, constant practice in conversational German , and the memorizing of selected poems. Three hours, both terms.
164 Introduction to Federal Taxation
E-116 and E-117. Physical Chemistry. Gases; laws and their deviations; kinetic theory; laws of thermodynamics. Liquids: critical state; molecular weights; optical refractivity, viscosity, and surface tension. Solutions: osmotic pressures, vapor pressures, freezing and boiling point, distillation of liquid mix tures. Colloids: phase rule. Thermochemistry: heats of formation, solution, neutralization. Electrolytic dissociation; electrolysis; conductivities; migration ratios; dilution laws; electromotive force; mass law and chemical kinetics. Prereq., E-109, E -lll.
5 4 -3 5 1 ,3 5 2 Fall: 9 units Light Design II Spring: 9 units Advanced problems in stage lighting. Lighting designers for departmental productions are chosen from this class. Critical evaluation of the lighting of these productions is a vital part of class work.
Cooking Course for Beginners. (One year.) Cooking (59). This coures covers a period of one year, and applicants must fulfil m erely the general requirem ents for admission to the night school.
E-119. C h em ic a l E n g in eer in g I. A study of the commercial types of apparatus and structural elements used in chemical manufacturing processes. Combustion, theory and design of equipment dealing with flow of fluids, heat transmission, filtration, evaporation, crushing, grinding, and classification. Prereq., E-108, E-112, E-118. 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
152. Modern Armenian Drama as Vehicle for Social Critique. (4) Readings of selected plays from 1668 to 1992 in English translation, with particular reference to comedy. Focus on their role as commentators on contemporary mores and as agents for social reform. Discussion supplemented by video recordings of staged performances.
185 Commercial Bank Management Problems facing bank managers examined and solution techniques developed. Specific topics include asset selection, liability management, bank accounting systems, and the regulatory system. Prerequi site: 184. Three hours.
122 Chinese Philosophy II Chinese thought from the Han Dynasty to Mao Zedong's thought. Prerequisite: 121. Three hours.
1-226. S h e e t M e t a l E s t im a t in g . Trade Customs; price lists of materials; elements of cost; finding cost of overhead expense; method of applying overhead to each job; estimating skylight quan tities and cost; sheet metal work for buildings, ventilating duct work, warm air furnace heating; standard specifications for duct work; standard code for warm air heating. Second semester; 3 hrs. lec., 2 hrs. prep., 5 units.
295 Special Topics. Lectures, labora tories, readings or projects relating to con temporary areas of study. Enrollment may be more than once; accumulate up to twelve hours. Prerequisite: Departmental permis sion.
135 Philosophy of Religion Typical topics: the nature of religion, the concept of God, the grounds for belief in God, mortality, truth, and revelation. Historical and contemporary sources. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
227, 228 ENGLISH NOVEL English fiction from its origins through the nineteenth century. Masterpieces are stressed and read critically. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
G106 GERMAN LITERATURE: P800-1850. Three hours. II The Romantic Movement and Young Germany. Reading of selected lyrics, short stories, and dramas. (Offered in alternate years, 1951-52.) Prerequisite: 101-102.
A-5 and A-6. G eneral H istory of the A rts. Lectures and reading covering the development and relation of the fine arts in general: Architecture, painting, music, drama, and sculpture. First and second semesters; 1 hr. lec., 3 hrs. prep., 4 units.
19. INTRODUCTION TO POETICS. An elementary study of the general problems of aesthetics as related to poetry, the forms and char acteristics of poetry. Special attention is given to the lyric. Three hours,
120 Principles of Management and Organizational Behavior Fundamentals of management, organization theory, behavior, and interpersonal communication in a trans national context. Prerequisite: Junior standing. Three hours.
391 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
ENGINEERING, MECHANICAL 135 MACHINE DESIGN I (3-0) Statically indeterminant members, de flection of beams, columns, connections, energy methods, theories of failure, continuous beams, thick-walled cylinders. Prerequisite: 132, C.E. 131. Three hours.
199. Special Studies. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged. Limited to juniors/seniors. Individual investigation of selected topic to be arranged with a faculty member. Enrollment request forms available in department ofce. Occasional eld trips may be arranged. May be repeated for credit.
54-261,262 Fall: 4 -6 -8 units Production II Spring: 4 -6 -8 units Planning, executing, and supervising production work in set construction, scene painting, costume, lighting, properties; assignments as house manager and assistant stage manager.
C-15. A lgebra I. A course for short course students extending through quadratic equations. Second semester; 5 hrs. rec., 10 hrs. prep., 15 units.
73-501 Honors Thesis Spring: 9 units Economics majors with outstanding academic records and intellectual promise will be given the opportunity to undertake original research under the direction of individual faculty members. Research topics are selected by students and faculty. Prerequisites: Senior standing in the Economics Department and permission of faculty.
C-457. Pe r s o n n e l M a n a g e m e n t . The administration of human relations in industry; policies of em ploym ent, training, health and safetv, relations with employees and employees' service, research and planning,' industrial psy cholog)', and the right handling of personal relationships. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
232 Community Design (2-1) Basic principles-and methods of planning and designing the community;=siieseiection; and elements such as subdivisions, industrial parks, new town, etc. Prerequisite: 230 or 231. Three hours.
82-280 Learning about Language Learning Fall: 9 units This course is designed for students majoring or co-majoring in a Modern Language, or for students seriously contemplating undertaking the study of a foreign language at some future time. Experienced language learners bring to the tasks of learning a new language all sorts of general knowledge about the ways in which languages work as well as techniques for putting this knowledge to practical use. The objectives of this course are to provide students with a basic introduction to those areas of linguistics and psycholinguistics that will facilitate their language learning. Co-requisite: Study of a foreign language.
*208. Social and Civic Foundations of Education . (2) I, II. Prerequisite : courses ' 106 and 180 and the consent of the instructor.
307 ADVANCED CONCEPTS IN NUTRITION Study of chemistry and physiology of digestion, absorption and metabolism of nutrients. Methods of estimating and meeting dietary requirements for maintenance, growth, and reproduction of several species. Genetic and nutritional interrelationships. Basic study of growth per se. Prerequisite: one of the following: Animal Sciences 246, Home Economics 246, or a 200 level course in biochemistry. Three hours.
286A. Economic Development. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 201C, 202C. Study of theoretical and empirical problems related to developing countries. Emphasis on relation between international trade and economic development, dynamic aspects of commercial policies, ination, stabilization, structural adjustment, growth and migration.
8. English Writing of Bids, Specifications, Contracts; Tech nical Spelling; Reading; Debates. Two hours,
20 The Study of History Introduction to methods of studying the past. Use of works of major historians as means of investigating the ways in which historians think and write his tory. Three hours.
76-451 Topics in Language Study Fall or Spring: 9 units Seminars focusing on topics In linguistics and discourse studies. Topics will vary by semester. Consult detailed course descriptions available from the Departm ent each sem ester for details. May be repeated for credit.
222 ADVANCED MECHANICAL STRUCTURES II (3-0) Stress and strain at a point in three dimensions; the theory of elasticity with two-dimensional ex amples; development of strain energy method with applications to beams, curved bars and plates; elastic bodies in contact. Advanced properties of materials. Prerequisite: 211. Three hours.
220. Armenian Literature of the Golden Age (A.D. 5th Century). (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 131A-131B. Readings of texts and discussion of literary genres; original works and those translated from Greek and Syriac.
E-73 and E-74. P hysics L aboratory. Exercises in addition to those sched uled under E-41 and E-42. Prereq., C -l, C-2. Physics, Sophomore, first and second semesters. M r. B oreman.
285A-285B-285C. Workshops: International Economics. (4-4-4) Lecture, three hours. Workshops for predissertation and dissertation writers. Research in progress presented, discussed, and criticized by visiting experts, UCLA faculty members, advanced graduate students.
EDHE 391. Master Thesis Rsch. 1-12 Credits. Thesis topic must be approved by a faculty committee
C-533 and C-534. P h y s ic a l E d u c a t io n II. Swimming is optional for advanced swimmers; for all others one hour a week is required. Archery, field hockey and speedball are given during the outdoor seasons. Folk, in terpretive, and tap dancing, basket ball, deck tennis, badminton, and volley ball are offered for the remaining two periods. Restricted work is included as in C-541. Sophomore year, first and second semesters; 3 hrs., 3 units each semester.
195, 196 Special Topics Specialized or experimental courses offered as resources permit.
220. History and Philosophy of Social Welfare. (1/2 course) The history of social work as a field: body of knowledge, method and process, and point of view analyzed within the context of the economic, political, social, philosophical and scientific climate of the period.
1-903 and 1-904. H and Composition. Application of hand composition; materials involved, their cost, composition room plan ning; the lay of the case; the compositors technic; job-composition; book and catalog composition; purpose not to develop speed, but to help the student recognize the highest standards of typography, to analyze the best work done with type. First and second semesters; 6 hrs. shop, 6 units.
1-744. P r o d u c tio n M e th o d s . Study of production methods in local plants; methods used in handling heavy forgings; shingling; shop tests on bar stock for impurities ; forging and treating machine itools ; relation of mechanical treatment of steel to heat treatment; shop management ; design and adaptability of forging presses ; cause and prevention of major defects. One-half of second semester; 4 hrs. shop, 2 units.
214. Commercial Law. This course is supplementary to the course on Contracts prescribed for all engineering students. It takes up somewhat more in detail the law relating to various forms of commercial activity. Among the subjects treated are agency, bailments, bankruptcy, carriers, corporations, negotiable in struments, partnership, real property and conveyancing, sales, and insurance. The proper procedure for enforcing the different kinds of contracts is pointed out. The object of the course is not to prepare a student to dis pense with the services of a lawyer, but to enable him to decide when such service may be valuable to him, and to use it more intelligently.
596. Directed Individual or Tutorial Studies. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged. Supervised investigation of advanced environmental problems.
149. B,ineaiology . (8) I. Miss Grunewald Prerequisite : Zoology 35. A study of the joint and muscular mechanism of movements.
E-946. P rin t in g -P la n t M a n a g em en t. The organization and opera tion of all departments of the printing plant, including specific application of industrial management factors to the composing room, pressroom and bindery. Plant visits for the purpose of studying production methods in local printing plants. Prereq., all Freshman and Sophomore shop courses. Senior year, second semester, 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. P ro fesso r G u st a fso n ; M e s s r s. M a r t in , T homas, P it k in .
EDHE 382. Teaching Internship. 3-8 Credits. Supervised teaching experiences on a full-time basis, with related seminars in teaching subject. Prerequisite: Permission of coordinator of Professional Laboratory Experiences.
31 Traditional Chinese Civilization Historical exam ination of the thought, social structure, politics, economics, science, literature, art, and music of traditional China. Three hours.
1-516. H e a t in g . Ventilating systems, fans, blowers and ex hausters ; ducts, dampers, air washers, special heating and ventilating apparatus design; plain drafting, layouts and specifications; estimat ing and contract work. Second semester; 3 hrs. shop., 3 units.
391 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
45. Shop Work. (2) I. (Credit .B) Mr. MARSH Storage battery construction and repair ; lead burning; battery charging, treatment , and care.
C-733 and C-734. Social R elations P rojects. Senior year in the C ol lege of Engineering. A continuation of C-731 and C-732. In order to schedule these courses, students must obtain permission from the Chairman of the Social Relations Program. First and second semesters; 9 units each semester.
C185A. Computational Linguistics I. (4) Requisites: courses 120B, C180, Program in Computing 10B. Recommended: course 165B or 200B, Program in Computing 60. Survey of recent work on natural language processing, including basic syntactic parsing strategies, with brief glimpses of semantic representation, reasoning, and response generation.
G-202. Psychology of Advertising and S ellin g. The strat egy underlying advertising and selling; the tactical problems in ad vertising; the tactical problems in selling; analysis of functions of salesman, salesmanager, advertising agency. Prereq., Introductory
391 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
G L-25. L i t e r a t u r e o f S c ie n c e a n d T e c h n o l o g y . A study of the principles of selection and evaluation of the literature of science and technology. One credit. Spring semester.
120. Introduction to Chinese Linguistics. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 6. Discussion of issues of Chinese phonology, morphology, and syntax. Case studies of seemingly idiosyncratic properties of Chinese in light of current theory of universal grammar.
M411. Environmental Health Sciences Seminar. (2) (Same as Environmental Health Sciences M411.) Seminar, two hours. Required of graduate environmental health sciences students for one term each year. Current topics in environmental health sciences and environmental science and engineering.
C-13. V ocational M athematics II. Mensuration; the use of logarithmic and other tables; evaluation of formulae; translating laws into formulae and conversely; the use of the sine, cosine and tangent in solving right triangles; practical graphing. For short course students. Prereq., C -ll or Elementary Algebra. First semester (repeated second semester) ; 5 hrs. rec., 10 hrs. prep., 15 units.
II-12 INTERMEDIATE HEBREW Reading, translation, and discussion in Hebrew of texts selected to show the development of Hebrew culture from Biblical times to the present. Three hours.
A-798. C o m m u n it y M u sic. Inquiry into the social and musical values of community singing; review and analysis and notable community activities in various cities, towns and rural communities in the United States; especial attention to the development in Pittsburgh under the Department of Special Schools and Extension Work of the Public Schools, the Civic Club of Allegheny County, and local social settlements; an outline of work covering various fields of effort and the materials and methods that will be found valuable in their development.
1-893. A ccounting. Principles of double entry bookkeeping; debit and credit; gains and losses; the uses and function of original and final books of entry; distinction between charges to capital and revenue; analysis of earnings and expenses; fundam entals of valuation; analysis of the trial balance; prob lems of corporation accounting for laboratory practice.
309 Synaptic and Conducting Mem branes. The mechanisms of synaptic transmission and nerve and muscle conduc tion will be explored with particular em phasis on molecular structure and function. Prerequisites: 304-305 and 302, Biochemistry 301, 302, permission of in structor. Three hours.
210. Indo-European Linguistics: Advanced Course II. (4) Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 205. Comparative study of verbal morphology, syntax, and lexicon. Problems in analysis and reconstruction.
31. Food Composition. (4) Either half -year. (Credit B) Miss lumina Prerequisite : Chemistry 2A. Food principles , selection , economic uses, nutritive values as affected by methods of preparation.
381, 382 GRADUATE SEMINAR Topical seminar with discussion of assigned and collateral reading. Required of departmental graduate students. No credit for Ph.D. candidates. One hour. The staff.
C-521 and C-522. P h y s i c a l E d u c a t io n (for Men). Exercises to promote co-ordination and correct deformities; games; water sports. First semester; 2 hrs. gymnasium, 2 units. Second semester; 3 hrs. gymnasium, 3 units.
82-441 Survey of Spanish Literature Offered intermittently: and Culture 9 units A sociocritical approach to the study of Spanish literature. A survey of representative authors considered in the context of the cultural heritage of Spain. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite 82-342 or equivalent.
214. Data Transmission in Computer Communications. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course 112. Limited to graduate computer science students. Discrete data streams, formats, rates, transductions; digital data transmissions via analog signaling in computer communication; media characteristics, systems methodologies, performance analysis; modem designs; physical interfaces in computer communication links; national/international standards; tests and measurements.
33. Elementary Dietetics . (3)'II. (Credit B) Miss CnwrON Prerequisite : Chemistry 10, Home Economies 31, 32. Principles of diet applied to individuals , the family , and other groups.
574. Hydraulic Laboratory This course is supplementary to the class room instruction in Hydraulics and is intended not only to give the student a better knowledge of hydraulic principles than he can get from the text-book alone, but also to make him familiar with the apparatus and methods adopted in ordinary commercial testing for the flow of water.
103. Introduction to General Phonetics. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Preparation: one prior linguistics course or course 20 concurrently. Phonetics of a variety of languages and phonetic phenomena that occur in languages of the world. Extensive practice in perception and production of such phenomena.
BIOL 284 - Cell Lunch Review and discussion of current research. Attendance required of Biology Graduate sudents. Seniors in research programs may enroll for 0 credits. Credits: 0.00 or 1.00
169 DEMONSTRATION TECHNIQUES (0-4) Practice in the presentation of information and the teaching of skills by visual methods. Prerequisite: junior standing. Two hours.
254 Fungal Genetics Fungi contribute knowledge in classical and molecular genetics and are of great economic im portance in agriculture, biotechnology, and industry. This course studies these aspects. Prerequisite: Biology 101 or Bio chemistry 301 or equivalents; permission of instructor. Three hours.
281, 282 ANIMAL SCIENCES SEMINAR Reports and discussions of prob lems and special investigations in selected fields. One-three hours.
288A-288B-288C. Proseminars: International and Development Economics. (4-4-4) Seminar, three hours. Quarterly seminars for predissertation and dissertation writers on current issues in international trade and nance and development economics. Presentation of work-in-progress for feedback from faculty and other graduate students. Presentation or research paper required.
10. Intermediate Modern Chinese: Intensive. (12) Lecture, 10 hours; discussion, 10 hours. Enforced requisites: courses 1, 2, 3. Intensive course equivalent to courses 4, 5, and 6. Designed to strengthen communicative skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Grammar reviews, knowledge of idiomatic expressions, and both traditional and simplied characters.
215. Computer Communications and Networks. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course 112. Resource sharing; computer trafc characterizations; multiplexing; network structure; packet switching and other switching techniques; ARPANET and other computer network examples; network delay and analysis; network design and optimization; network protocols; routing and ow control; satellite and ground radio packet switching; local networks; commercial network services and architectures. Optional topics include extended error control techniques; modems; SDLC, HDLC, X.25, etc.; protocol verication; network simulation and measurement; integrated networks; communication processors.
GRNS 338. Adv Hlth Assessment CNL. 2 Credits. History taking and advanced physical examination of children and adults. Symptom analysis will provide direction for focused examinations. Prerequisite: Undergraduate physical assessment course; Pre/Co-requisite: GRNS 335.
239 MODERN POETRY Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
C-201 and C-202. E lem entar y French. Beginning' course. The object of this course is to impart a correct pronunciation and give the student a working knowledge of the grammatical structure of the language, which will enable him
C-281 and C -282. E lem e n t a r y S pa n ish . 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units each sem ester.
209, 210 The 20th Century Selected works in poetry, prose, and drama by Brecht, George, Hauptmann, Hofmannsthal, Kafka, Thomas Mann, Rilke, and others. Prerequisite: 101, 102 or equivalent. Three hours. Schreckenberger, Scrase.
82-301/2 Fall: 9 units French Conversation and Composition or Spring: 9 units Intensive linguistic practice progressing from controlled patterns in speech and writing to free discussion and composition. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-202 or 82-212 or equivalent.
C-731 and C-732. S ocial R elation s Projects. Lim ited to a small number of juniors of exceptional ability. Each student is expected to make an independent study of some significant phase of social relations and to em body, in a final report of his findings, evidence of com petence in respect to the several objectives pursued during his previous years of study in social relations. In order to schedule these courses, students must obtain permission from the Chairman of the Social Relations Program. First and second semesters; 9 units each semester.
342 OPERATIONS RESEARCH FOR MANAGERIAL ECONOMICS Application of advanced quantitative methods to operating problems in business. Operations research techniques including programming, both linear and curvilinear, and queuing theory are presented. Prerequisite: 341 and mathematics 7, 8 or 11, 12. Three hours
C-l. A lgebra and T rigonometry. Review of certain topics in entrance algebra, additional work on graphs, legariithms, trigono metric functions of any angle, identities, and right triangles. Fresh man year. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
C-347. N in eteen th C en tu ry H istory and C-348. Studies in C ontem porary H istory. A comprehensive survey of the history and background, as well as the economic, geographic and other aspects of European international relations from 1870 to the present. Studies of nationalism, territorial conflicts, imperialism, militarism and armaments, economic problems of international relations, problems of diplomacy and international organization. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
232A-232B-232C. Advanced Classical Armenian. (4-4-4) (Formerly numbered 132A-132B.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 231A or 231B or 231C. Course 232A is not requisite to 232B, which is not requisite to 232C. In-depth reading and linguistic analysis of texts related to the Philhellene School of the 6th to 8th century and related works up to the 19th century.
GE598 Engineering Plasticity Second semester, 9 units
202. Advanced Computer Science Seminar. (4) Seminar, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Preparation: completion of major eld examination in computer science. Current computer science research into theory of, analysis and synthesis of, and applications of information processing systems. Each member completes one tutorial and one or more original pieces of work in the specialized area.
E-114. T ec h n ic a l O rganic A n a ly sis. Qualitative and quantitative procedures, developed to promote theoretical and technical knowledge of the composition of organic compounds, with methods of analysis utilized in research. Prereq., E-108, E-112. 1 hr. lec., 3 hrs. lab., 2 hrs. prep., 6 units. P ro fesso r St e v e n s
A-904. Modeling II. A continuation of A-903.
5 4 -3 4 1 ,3 4 2 Fall: 4 units Costum e Design I Section B Spring: 4 units Studies in design techniques with a basic approach to the figure and how it is costumed to suit the production. Emphasis on interpretation, director-designer communication, and the design process.
Bookbinding II This course deals with materials and processes used in practical bookbinding. Practice in binding , repairing, and rebinding books. Five hours. Three units.
1 Introduction to the Problems of Philosophy* In troduction to philosophy through such fundamental problems as the existence of God, the basis of morality, and the possibil ity of knowledge. Contemporary and historical readings. Three hours.
GRK 204. Greek Tragedy. 3 Credits. Sophocles Antigone, and Euripides Medea, or two equivalent plays.
204 FAMILY ECONOMICS The consumer and the market. Use of credit, savings and investments, insurance and estate planning for the family. Pre requisite: 101, economics 12. Three hours.
220. Seminar: Islamic Texts. (4) Seminar, three hours. Doctrines and hermeneutics of various schools of thought in Islam, with selected readings from major works.
26 HISTORY OF VERMONT Vermont since its foundation. Prerequisite: completion of or enrollment in 23. One hour. Dr.
101,102 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES (3-3) Principles of electric and mag netic circuits; application of these principles to the theory and performance of selected power, control and communication equipment. Prerequisite: mathematics 21 and physics 15,101 for 102. Four hours.
166 SPECIAL PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION Individual in vestigation of a problem selected to meet special needs of students. Prerequisite: 165. Two or three hours
GRNS 404. Adv Pharmacology APRN. 3 Credits. In-depth examination of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of select drugs for acute and chronic health conditions. Ethical and legal standards of prescriptive authority explored. Pre/Co-requisite: GRNS 335.
251 METHODS OF TEACHING VOCATIONAL AGRICULTURE (2-2) Making farm surveys, analyzing farm businesses, developing a course of study and farming programs. Developing teaching plans; techniques and visual aids; advising the FFA chapter; evaluating student progress; providing counseling; guidance and maintaining discipline. Prerequisite: senior standing. 104 and 152 or departmental permission. Three hours. Dr. Gaylord.
223. Seminar on the Social Work Profession. (1/2 course) The nature and role of social work in contemporary society; relationships with other professions; probable future trends in the profession; social work ethics, professional organizations, certification licensing; professional responsibility for continued self-criticism and improvement of the profession.
204A. Social Systems in Social Welfare. (1/2 course) The application of social system theory to the problems of social welfare and social work. Analysis of the network of community relationships, values, stratification, institutions and subcultures as related to the premises and services of social work.
61 THE FAMILY, THE INDIVIDUAL AND MARRIAGE A functional course designed to aid young men and women to prepare for marriage and family liv ing. Three hours
1. Fundamentals of Modern Geography . (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) MWF , 8,9,10 , 12,2 3 ; Tu Th 8, 8, 9, 11. Associate Professor MoBRann and the STArr A development of the underlying principles of human geography through a study of the main features of the physical environment in their relationship to man 's life and activities , particularly as exemplified in type regions ; varied map study.
C-551. Hygiene. Lectures on personal hygiene with reading of textbook. Freshman year, first semester; 1 hr. lec., 1 unit.
G L-2. T h e L i b r a r y i n C o n t e m p o r a r y S o c i e t y . The place, objectives and function of the library in the governmental, educational and social structures; its re sponsibilities to various community groups; the philosophy and ethics of librarianship. Two credits. Fall semester.
381, 382, 383, 384 SEMINAR Graduate level study of Latin authors not read in the candidate's undergraduate program. Credit as arranged. The staff.
127. International Relations. (3) II. (Credit A, B) Assistant Professor GBenAM Geographic , economic, , cultural , racial , psychological and social factors underlying international relations ; the modern states system; alliances and the balance of power; diplomatic practice and problems; international organization and administration.
2218. Social Welfare Policy and Services II. (1/2 course) Prerequisite: consent of instructor. Study of income-maintenance policy and services. Introduces theory and research about selected levels of living, regularity and source of income, and their relevance for family and social well-being; analysis of various income-maintenance policies and services; causes and nature of poverty. Current antipoverty legislation.
182 Security Valuation and Portfolio Selection Examination of the theories and evidence on the behavior of financial asset prices and rational portfolio sqjection. Prerequi sites: 180,184 recommended. Three hours.
1-302. P r in c ip le s o f E l e c t r i c i t y . Study of electric and mag netic circuits; ohms law and its application; electrical units; elec trical measuring instruments and methods of measuring resistance, current, voltage, power, and energy; electromagnetism and calcula tion of magnetic circuits; electromagnetic induction, electrodynamics, inductance, and capacity. Prereq., 1-301. Electric Equipment and Construction, Sophomore year. Second semester; 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
599. Ph.D. Dissertation Research and Writing. (2 to 12) Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation of research data and writing of Ph.D. dissertation.
79-260 Early American History Units 12 An examination of the emergence of American cultural patterns in the seventeenth and eight eenth centuries. The course compares the American experience to that of other new nations and considers the legacy of the early period to nineteenth and twentieth century America.
S88 NUTRITION AND FOOD PREPARATION (2-2) Fundamentals of normal nutrition; laboratory experience in calculating food values; planning adequate meals; basic food preparation techniques. For nursing students in summer ses sion. Three hours. Miss McCarthy.
260 Adaptive Physical Education. Recognition, prevention, correction of functional, structural deviations from nor mal body mechanics. Organization of pro grams adapted to needs of handicapped individuals in both special class and mainstreamed settings. Prerequisite: 155, 104, 105 or equivalent teaching experience. Three hours.
294 ENGINEERING ANALYSIS (0-3) Application of scientific principles to the analysis of comprehensive engineering problems. Presentation of current developments. Prerequisite: senior standing. One hour.
E -9 4 8 . P r o o fr e a d in g an d Copy P r e p a r a tio n . Proofreaders marks; systems of proofreading; procedure in the proofroom; practice in copyholding and proofreading; copy-editing; the use of reference works; technical informa tion needed by the proofreader. Sophomore year, second semester, 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. P r o f e s s o r G u sta fso n .
205, 206 NETWORK SYNTHESIS (3-0), (3-0) Basic principles of passive electrical net work synthesis; energy relations, physical realizability, two-terminal network synthesis; approximation methods; properties and synthesis of four-terminal networks. Prerequisite: 126. 205 for 206. Three hours.
181 Substructure Analysis and Design (3-3) Evalu ation of subsoil conditions and earth pressures; design of re taining walls, substructures for buildings and bridges, and cof ferdams. Prerequisite: 180. Four hours.
166 Advanced Accounting Accounting for partner ships, special sales contracts, parent-subsidiary relationships, fiduciary relationships, and governmental units. Prerequisite: 162. Three hours.
102 History of Modern Philosophy Study of works of the major philosophers of the 17th and 18th centuries: Descar tes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant, and others. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
181 Issues in Financial Management Examines key areas of financial decision-making. With cases and problems, issues such as capital budgeting, leasing, mergers, and acquisi tions examined. Prerequisite: 180. Three hours.
167. S t r u ctu r es. T his course is similar to No. 165, except that less time is devoted to drawing room work.
1A-1B-1C. U.S. Military Forces in the Contemporary World (1 unit each). Lecture, one hour; discussion, one hour. Air Force ROTC students should complete all three courses, preferably in sequence. Willingness to participate in class discussion is required. 1A. A "threat assessment" of the U.S.S.R./Warsaw Pact; summary of the United States agencies and armed services which specifically counter that "threat," comparing and contrasting the U.S.S.R. and the U.S. in numerous areas. 18. Discussion of doctrine and policy, giving students an opportunity to role play and create problems/solutions. Defense contracting and the attached and specialized units of the Air Force; civilian influence and Air Force contributions to industry. 1C. The major commands of the Air Force, their contributions to civilian industry/economy, and the special programs/challenges of the future. More technical in nature, covering basic improvements in Air Force weapon systems, humanitarian efforts, and the importance of current events. Pros and cons.
168 STUDENT TEACHING Supervised observation and teaching in approved secondary schools in Vermont. Prerequisite: 165. Seven hours.
7. English Business Letter W riting; Technical Spelling; Reading; Debates. Two hours,
82-183 Constructions of Memory and Modernity Interdisciplinary BHA Freshman Seminar in Cultural Analysis Fall: 9 units Constructions of Memory and Modernity will focus on the arts in society during the period of intense modernization that begins in the middle of the nineteenth century (the Second Empire in France), with an emphasis on the late nineteenth century and the early years of the twentieth century (approximately until the time of World War I [1914-1918]). We will read a wide range of literary, historical, and cultural works in an interdisciplinary, comparative perspective. Our focus is on the cultures of Western Europe and the U.S., with an emphasis on French, Anglo-Irish and English, and German works; the readings will be complemented by study of the visual arts, especially Impressionism and photography, theater, and opera. We will view some of the latter works on film and video, when available. The course will take the form of a seminar, with emphasis on student participation. Each student will be responsible for leading the discussion of a number of readings; each student will be responsible for active, well-prepared participation in the discussions. We will write critiques of the works in advance of class discussion, and in order to facilitate participation in discussion. Some work will take the form of pair/group discussions and presentations to the rest of the class. Written work will focus on the works read for class and will take the form of the critiques described above and two take-home midterm essay exams. The course will be divided into three topical areas, as follows: I. History and Memory: to begin, we will read and consider different conceptions of time in history, philosophy, political theory, and psychoanalysis. What is the structure of time in these different approaches? What is the role played by history? How do we distinguish history from memory? What are the consequences of cyclical and revolutionary time, versus progressive and linear? How does revolutionary time reconcile the New with repetition, or the nineteenthcentury concept of the Eternal Return of the same? II. The Image of Modernity: the Body in Time: in the context of memory, history, and repetition, ghosts enter the scene of modernity. This section of the course will focus on spectacular ghostly returns of all kinds, with an emphasis on theater, painting, and photography, and a ghost story by Henry James. III. Involuntary Memory and Modernist Poetics: The work of several major poets and novelists and the theoretical writings of the Berlin critic, Walter Benjamin, focus on a distinction between voluntary and involuntary memory, and an important focus on involuntary memory develops in the influential poetry and poetics of Charles Baudelaire, arguably the most important nineteenth-century poet. We will read some of his poetry translated by a contemporary American writer; we will read selections from Rilkes fiction, and from Prousts great novel of memory, Remembrance of Things Past.
219 Race Relations Examination of American racial subordination in social and historical perspective. Analysis of interracial contacts, racial sub-cultures and social structures, and responses to racial prejudice and discrimination. Prereq uisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
82-435/6 Offered intermittently: Studies in German Literature 6-9 units A series of inquiries into an aspect of German literature, such as literary movement, a genre, a theme, or the work of a single author, e.g., Expressionism, Novelle, Faust, Kafka, et al. Pre requisite: 82-322 or equivalent.
Handwork III Emphasis is placed on textile materials and processes, simple sewing,' crocheting, knitting and basketry. . Prerequisite, Handwork II. Five hours. Three units.
161, 162 German Literature in Translation (See course description under Extra-Departmental Courses.)
Songs I, II and III An analytical study of one-part, two-part, and three-part songs. Dictation. Interpretation. Five hours. Three units.
100. Principles of Epidemiology. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, four hours. Preparation: one full biological sciences course. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 200. Introduction to epidemiology, including factors governing health and disease in populations.
M70. Origin of Language. (5) (Same as Communication Studies M70 and German M70.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Theoretical and methodological issues surrounding origin of language. Topics include evolutionary theory, evolution of man, how language is organized in brain, and science of language, including physiology of speech, phonetics, and comparative reconstruction.
298A-298B-298C. Proseminars: Asset Pricing. (44-4) Seminar, three hours. Quarterly seminars for predissertation and dissertation writers on empirical issues in area of asset pricing, broadly dened. Presentation of work-in-progress or background material for proposed dissertation topics which are discussed and criticized by faculty members and fellow students. Presentation or research paper required.
104A. Advanced Infantry Training . (3) Either half-year . (Credit A, B) tTu Th, 8, 11, 1. Assistant Professor Comm Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course; instruction in infantry weapons (37 mm .-3 in. trench mortar ), company administration , military history, and national defense act.
C-553 and C-554. P layground G am es and D ances. Programs for group activities, including calisthenics, gymnastics, and games, arranged for various age groups; folk dances of various nations for playgrounds. Required for Social Work. Sophomore year, first and second semesters; 1 hr. lab., 1 hr. prep., 2 units.
204B. Small Groups in Social Welfare. (1/2 course) Application of theory and knowledge of small group functioning to problems of working with groups in social work settings. Analysis of group formation, structure of interaction and communication patterns, and of leadership and morale problems. Application to family, peer and special-purpose groups.
125 ELECTRIC CIRCUITS II (3-3) Polyphase electric circuits, non-sinusoidal waves, coupled circuits and transformers, and applications. Prerequisite: 26 or physics 242 and de partmental permission; concurrent enrollment in mathematics 211. Four hours.
C-543 and C-S44. P h ysical E ducation II. Advanced work in gymnastics; folk dancing; athletics. Sophomore year, first and second semesters; 3 hrs., 3 units.
596. Directed Individual Studies. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
BIOL 281 - Biology Seminar Review and discussion of current zoological research. Attendance required of Biology graduate sudents. Seniors in zoological research programs may enroll for 0 credits. Credits 0-1. Credits: 0.00
164 AIR CONDITIONING (3-3) Application of the fundamental principles of thermodynamics, heat transfer and fluid mechanics to the design and perform ance of air conditioning systems and equipment. Prerequisite: 111 or 113; 142. Four hours.
150B. Animal Psychology. (3) H. Prerequisite : course 150A or consent of instructor. An analysis of current problems and research in animal behavior.
6R. Reading and Writing of Intermediate Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours; outside study, seven hours. Preparation: uent speaking skills in Mandarin Chinese. Enforced requisite: course 3R. Modern Chinese for students who understand and speak Mandarin but cannot read and write at intermediate level. Students learn to read texts in traditional and simplied characters and write simple compositions. Readings provide insight into Chinese society.
English X : Language Teaching in the Elementary Grades Informal phases of oral and'. written language, including the use of the State text-books.' The teaching problems involved in the acquirement of life vocabularies and easy habits of correct oral and. written expression on the part of children are investigated, and appropriate methods evolved. Emphasis is laid upon the creative aspects of language work.. Three hours. Three units.
133 Marxism Survey of the philosophy of Karl Marx and the Marxist tradition on such topics as historical material ism, human nature, alienation, freedom, social change, and revolution. Prerequisites: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
6 SIGN PAINTING (Night Only) Instruction in the use of tools and materials; freehand lettering with chalk; preparing surfaces, coating wood, metal, brick, etc. Alphabets in use and their relative values ; simple signs with lettering pencils ; spacing and the formation of letters; laying out; glass signs; etching; engraving and embossing on glass; wall and bulletin lettering; show card writing.
21 ENGINEERING GEOLOGY (2-2) The recognition of common minerals and rocks; rock structures and their effects on engineering prob lems. Required of students in civil engineering, not open to others. Three hours.
1-822. A utomotive E lectricity and Carburetors. T his is a study of the problems of the electrical and fuel system s of autom obiles and aircraft. Practical studies are made using the equipment of the laboratory for problems of starting, lighting and ignition system s, and for problems of carburetors and fuel system s.
241A-241B . Advanced Theory of Social Work Method (Community Organization ) IV, V. (1h course each) Concurrent practicum in social work required. Emphasis on various patterns of community action for attaining social welfare objectives; research and field experience directed toward study of social problems within the context of community planning; emerging patterns of physical, economic and social planning within the framework of social change theory.
C*-34. Advanced C alcu lu s II. A more critical study of the definite integral; functions defined by definite integrals; improper integrals; multiple integrals; line, surface, and space integrals; a brief introduction to functions of a complex variable; and other selected topics varying from year to year. Prereq., C-33. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
291C. Asset Prices, Forecasting, and Learning. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 291A. Designed for graduate students. Introduction to forecasting methods and applications to asset pricing. Signalextraction under different uncertainty specications. Kalman ltering and forecasting. Robust ltering and forecasting. Models of behavioral nance. Stylized facts on forecasts and asset pricing anomalies: shortterm momentum and long-term reversals of returns. Option pricing anomalies.
161, 162 Intermediate Accounting Principles, con cepts, techniques, and issues involved in accounting for the assets, liabilities, and owners equity and their related effect on income determination of an enterprise. Prerequisites: 60 for 161, junior standing; 161 for 162. Three hours.
G29S, 296 GRADUATE RESEARCH Each student completes a research problem under the direction of a qualified staff member and submits the findings in written form in accordance with the specifications for a Mas ter's thesis. Credit as arranged.
GL-5. B o o k s f o r A d u l t s . A shorter course than GL-3 and GL-4, to acquaint those taking library work with children with the basic principles of providing materials for adult readers. Two credits. Spring semester.
172. The Junior High School . (3) Either half -year. (Credit B) M W F, 10. Assistant Professor SMITH Prerequisite : F,dueation 170. Limited to seniors.
181. Problems in Human Relations . (3) I, H. Mr. Barthol, Mr. Walter Understanding human relations, problems and developing skills in interpersonal relations. Topics include the effective use of human resources; group management and leadership skills; interviewing , counseling , and conference techniques . Does not carry credit toward major in psychology.
180. Hydraulics. This course is similar in scope to 174, but the distribution of the time will be modified somewhat in order to meet the needs of Mechanical Engineering students.
3 9 -2 5 0 C IT U n d e rg ra d u a te P ro je cts F a ll: 0 -1 8 u n its This course num ber is to be used for Fall CIT freshman research projects only. Student m ust complete a CIT Undergraduate Project Approval form (located in Scaife Hall 110) and subm it for approval. The form m ust include a complete description and a signature approval from the research advisor/instructor. If the project is approved, the CIT Undergraduate Studies Office will add the course to the student's fall schedule.
139. Organization and Administration of the Elementary Curriculum. (3) II. (Credit B) Professor MBaiAia Prerequisite : Education 130A-180B.
79-242 Afro-American History Units 12 The history of an encounter involving black Americans: the struggle for freedom, including the experiences of both slavery and freedom. The course will place particular emphasis on the development of black thought in relation to the black Americans position and status.
161 INTERMEDIATE ACCOUNTING Accounting records, end-of-year pro cedures, statements, analysis of working capital, profit and loss analysis, corpo rations, current and fixed assets, investments, liabilities, reserves, determination of net income, and the statement of application of funds. Prerequisite: 13-14. Three hours.
130. Armenian Civilization under Bagratid Dynasty, 884 to 1064. (4) Lecture, four hours. Interdisciplinary investigation of interface between sociopolitical and economic factors in creation of works of art (literature, art, architecture, etc.) and social function these works performed in this important period of Armenian history.
M177. Structure of Korean. (4) (Same as Korean CM120.) Lecture, three hours. Preparation: two years of Korean, or one year of Korean and some knowledge of linguistics. Discussion of major syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic characteristics of Korean in light of linguistic universals, with brief introduction to formation, typological features, and phonological structure of Korean.
Geography IV : Asia The effect of physiographic conditions upon the life of man in Asia. Geographical relations between this continent and the Pacific Coast of ' North 'America. Prerequisite, same as- for Geography H. Five hours. Five units.
English VIII : Victorian Poetry An interpretative study of typical selections from the poetry of Wordsworth, Tennyson, Browning, and other poets of the period. Appreciation , rather than formal analysis and criticism. Five hours. Five units.
1-745. A d v a n c e d P r o d u c tio n M e th o d s . Estimating cost of heat treated products ; selection of forge equipment ; application of Metcalfs experiment ; classifying and marking stock material ; fur nace practice using heat measuring instruments ; composition and use of various liquid chemicals ; the human element vs. instruments in furnace practice ; safety devices. First semester ; 4 hrs. lec., 8 hrs. shop, 12 units.
136 ALPHABETIC SHORTHAND AND TRANSCRIPTION Principles of writing shorthand, using letters rather than the traditional shorthand symbols. Writing combined with typing skill through instruction in transcribing on the type writer. For students who wish skill competency for general or vocational use in a short time. Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Four hours.
221, 222 Advanced Composition and Conversation Oral and written practice in German of advanced difficulty with emphasis on stylistics. Prerequisite: 121, 122 or equiva lent. Three hours. Mieder, Schreckenberger.
491 DOCTORAL THESIS RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
6. Intermediate Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours. Enforced requisite: course 5. Continuation of course 5.
GE658 Advanced Metallurgical Operations First semester, 8 units Analysis of smelting and refining processes for evaluation of limiting factors; e.g., equili brium limitations, reagent supply, energy supply, kinetics or transport steps. Applications to representative processes involving shaft, pneumatic, reverberatory and electric furnaces, including recent industrial innovations and problems of devising mathematical models for process simulation and control by computers. Prereq., undergraduate physical chemistry; E622, E625 and E626, or equivalent in chemical or mechanical engineering courses and industrial experience; S205 or computer experience desirable. 2 hrs. lec.
290. Seminar: Armenian Paleography. (4) Seminar, three hours. Discussion of a variety of Armenian scripts and training in use of manuscripts.
E*-136. O rg a n ic Q u a lita tiv e A n a ly sis. Systematic method of identi fication of pure organic compounds, involving a review of organic reactions and their application as specific tests for the presence of various groups. Separation and identification of mixtures of compounds. Technique of han dling small quantities of materials, including micro-methods for determining indices of refraction, melting points, and boiling points, and use of microscope for examination of crystal forms. Prereq., E-118 or E-120. Second semester; 1 hr. lec., 6 hrs. lab., 9 units.
281, 282 Senior Seminar Readings and research. Re quired of all senior concentrators. Three hours.
E-641 and E-642. F urnace D esign. Principles involved in the design of metallurgical furnaces, supplemented by problems and by detailed study of the design of blast furnaces and open hearth furnaces. Prereq., E-2, E-43 and E-102.
Music I: Elementary Sight singing and dictation. Study of songs and song materials. Outline of Music in Elementary Schools. Five hours. Five units.
345 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS An introduction to the design and implementation of management information systems. A theoretical framework is developed and applied by students to an information system. Prerequisite: MBA standing. 3 hours.
229 The Family As a Social Institution Examination of the institution of the American family in cross-cultural and historical perspective. Theories and research on family conti nuity, change, and institutional relationships explored. Prereq uisite: 129 or six hours of sociology.
1-517. P lu m b in g .
323 Principles and Elements of Biomedical Instrumentation. Instrument methodology for biologically trained re searchers. Topics: basic electrophysics; transducers; concepts and manipulation of bioelectric and other signals; physiological instrument systems. Laboratory supports theoretical ideas. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. Five hours.
230 HOME FURNISHING II (1-4) Interior design; period furnishing, its present use and influence upon modern furnishing. Prerequisite: 130. Three hours. Miss Caldwell.
A -15 and A-16. H is t o r y o f O r n a m e n t . Lectures to familiarize the stu dents in Art Education and Interior Decoration with the various historic periods.
2 PRINCIPLES OF EVOLUTION (3-2) Biological principles connected with the development of life on earth; evidences that evolution occurs. Prerequisite: 1. Four hours.
288,289 Seminar: Research and Methods of Teach ing Sociology The development and evaluation of the teaching of sociology. Prerequisites: Twelve hours of sociology. permission of department. Open only to students who serve concurrently as teaching assistants in the department. Three hours.
GRNS 326. Hlth Care Eth,Policy,Politics. 3 Credits. Examination of the processes of policy analysis and development with focus on advocacy. Prerequisite: Registered nurse licensure or matriculated graduate nursing student.
3. Elementary Modern Chinese. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours. Continuation of course 2.
Education VII: Experimental Pedagogy Students who have a sufficient basis of scholarship and practical experience may elect to take up experimental investigation of teaching problems.* The course will require the reading of the literature bearing on the subject investigated , a thesis giving a detailed account of the investigation made, with its relation to other studies in the same field, and an oral examination and defense of the thesis. Prerequisites, Psychology I and II, and Education I. . Hours and units by individual arrangement.
145 Managing the Information System Resource Theory and practice of managing resources of an organiza tion's information system. Responsibilities and interactions of upper level, function area, and information system managers emphasized. Topics include project selection and control, staff ing, organizing, planning, and managing the information system function. Prerequisites: 143, 144, or permission of in structor. Three hours.
E-645 and E-646. M in in g M ethods. Historical review; boring equipment and operations; rock drills and operations; explosives and blasting accessories and operations; roof support and timbering; tunnelling; shaft sinking; mining machines, coal augers and drills; excavating machinery and operations; pros pecting, exploration, development; underground coal mining methods; stripping operations; subsidence; mine gases, ventilation and problems; mine fans and ventilating appliances; electric and flame safety lamps. Prereq., E-609 and E-610.
English XII : American Literature Outline of the history of American literature, with assigned reading and study of selected authors. Three hours.. Three units.
5 European Civilization to 1815 Introduction to poli tical, social, and intellectual movements which have shaped the foundations of western civilization: from the Renaissance to the French Revolution. Three hours.
2. Language in the U.S. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Survey of languages of the U.S. (American Indian languages, oldest immigrant languages, ethnic and regional varieties of English, and newest arrival languages) and social and political aspects of American language use.
E-118. P h y s ic a l C h e m istry . Solutions of electrolytes; colligative properties; conductance and degrees of dissociation. H eterogeneous equili brium from the standpoint of the phase rule; one, tw o, and three com ponent system s. K inetics of reaction velocity; homogeneous reactions in gaseous and liquid system s; heterogeneous reaction s; catalysis. Colloids. T he lab oratory work includes: m olecular weight determ inations by th e V ictor M eyer, freezing point, and boiling point m ethods; surface tension m easurem ents; boiling point curves; study of phase equilibria in tw o and three com ponent system s. Prereq., E-116. C hem istry and Chem ical Engineering, 2 hrs. lec., 6 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 12 units. Physical M etallurgy, 2 hrs. lec., 3 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 9 units. D r. S e ltz
Harmony III Continuation of chromatic harmonies; modulation by common chord and common tone; neapolitan sixth ; advanced analysis and orginal com-. position. Five hours. Five units.
A-200. Acting Technique. Training in the basic elements of the actors craft stage movement and mechanics, sense exercises, sight-reading and pantomime together with exercises in improvisation, char acterization and emotion for stimulation of creative imagination and emotional capacities. Studio pro ductions of one-act plays at the end of the second semester. 5-10 units.
R-l and R-2. Infantry Drill, National Defense Act, Military Courtesy and Discipline, Hygiene, Rifle Marksmanship, Map Reading, Military His tory, Military Organization. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. attendance, 2 hrs. prep., 5 units. Total 10 units.
E-65. Physical A rts. Glass and quartz manipulation; photography and micrography; soldering; welding. Prereq., E-41. Chemistry and Physics, Senior year, first semester. M r. B oreman.
GRNS 391. Masters Thesis Research. 1-6 Credits. Prerequisites: GRNS 321, GRNS 322, GRNS 323, GRNS 324; approval of thesis committee. Pre/Co-requisite: Comprehensive Exam (completed prior to thesis defense).
258A- 253B . Early Childhood Education . Seminar . (2-2)
199. Special Studies in Armenian Language and Literature. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
E-309. M a r k e tin g . A short course in marketing principles, giving a general survey of the functions involved in the marketing process, the institu tions performing these functions, the methods employed, the problems met with, and the practices generally followed. Cases of actual business experience are used to show the specific application of the general principles that underly the concentration and distribution of economic goods. Prereq., C-351 and C-352. 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. (Omitted 1934-35). M r. M o o re .
180. Linguistic Analysis of Arabic. (4) Requisite: course 102C. Linguistic description of Arabic in both its modern standard and dialect forms. Introduction to linguistic analysis of Arabic phonology, morphology, and syntax and to linguists approaches to specic problems posed by Arabic grammar and dialectology. 199. Special Studies in Arabic. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
73. S a n i t a r y S c ie n c e . T his course consists of a series of lectures on health and disease, the germ theory, infection and con tagion, sanitary conditions, and purification of w ater and sewage. It is taken b y students in the Sanitary Engineering course and in the H ydraulic and Sanitary Option of the C ivil Engineering course.
GRK 212. Greek Prose Style. 3 Credits. Readings in literary prose analyzed stylistically and imitated in composition.
285A-285B-285C. Research in Social Welfare. Pre. requisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Review of areas of research of concern to social workers with special attention to design, instrument construction, data collection, data processing, data reduction, analysis and interpretation. Designs studied will include survey, panel, experimental observation, and theory development research.
A-801, A-802,^ A-803, A-804. Piano. For graduation in Option III, students are required to play before a jury and are expected to have attained sufficient piano technique to enable them to play readily all the accompani ments necessary for their teaching in the public schools and to be able to play any compositions which they may wish to use for illustrating their class work.
101 History of Ancient Philosophy Study of the works of the Pre-Socratics, Plato, Aristotle, and their succes sors. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4. Three hours.
31, 32 ANCIENT HISTORY Ancient Near Eastern, Greek, and Roman worlds. Prerequisite: sophomore standing or enrollment in Latin or Greek. Three hours.
303 Special Problems in Physiology. Various problems are covered by means of lectures, reports and directed reading. Pre requisites: 304-305; permission of depart ment chairman. Credit as arranged.
275 PHYSIOLOGY OF REPRODUCTION AND LACTATION Funda mental principles of the physiology of reproduction and lactation with the primary emphasis on farm animals. Three hours.
C*-33. A d va n ced C a lc u lu s I. A more critical study of the fundamentals of the differential calculus than is possible in the elementary course. Topics include: Rolles theorem, theorem of the mean, Taylors theorem, and expan sion of functions in power series; infinite series of constants and of functions; functions of several variables, and implicit functions. Prereq., C-4. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
E-306. I n d u stria l M a n a g em en t. A survey of the economic and engi neering principles of management. The use of the industrial plant as a ma chine; management policies and methods of control; science in industry; employee motivation and labor policy. Prereq., C-351 and C-352. Students whose classification is less than Senior standing should consult the instructor before scheduling this course. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. D r . G u il d .
GRNS 395. Independent Study. 1-6 Credits. Individual work in graduate nursing with a base of theory, research, or advanced practice. Student in consultation with faculty sponsor devises objectives, plan of work, and evaluation for designated credit hours. Graduate nursing faculty as selected by student. Prerequisite: Permission of academic advisor and sponsoring faculty.
210 CONTROL SYSTEMS
115 INTRODUCTION TO HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION Homemaking edu cation in relation to philosophy, professional contacts, and growth toward teacher competencies. Observation of secondary school problems, place of homemaking in general education. Prerequisite: junior standing. Two hours.
EDHE 200. Contemporary Issues. 1-6 Credits. Designed so that its content and structure may accommodate special issues not especially appropriate within the boundaries of an existing course. Prerequisite: Twelve hours in education and related areas.
391 through 394 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Investigation of a research topic under the direction of an assigned staff member, culminating in an accept able thesis. Credit as arranged.
A-901. Modeling I. A beginning course in the technique of modeling to develop correlation in seeing, analyzing, and reproducing form.
400B. Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course. (8) Discussion, eight hours. Requisite: course 400A. Multidisciplinary technical and socioeconomic analysis and prognosis of signicant current environmental problems.
148. Administration of Public Education with Special Reference to California . (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B)
E-131, E-132, E-143, E-144. C h em istry Sem inar. Practice in use of the chemical literature and in the oral and written presentation of reports. The seminar is conducted in cooperation with the Department of English. Prereq., E-113. 1 hr. rec., 1 unit.
Music I Sight singing. Five hours. Three units.
302, 303 Pharmacological Techniques Experiments conducted under supervision in the areas of drug metabolism, modes of drug action, physiochemical properties of drugs, bioassay, and toxicology. Open to undergraduates with permis sion of instructor. Two hours,
232A. Operational Semantics of Programming Languages. (4) Lecture, four hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisites: courses 131, 181. Introduction to formal semantics. Interpreter-based operational denitions. Induction and structural operational semantics. Proving equivalence between structural and interpreter-based operational denitions. Static and dynamic semantics. Example operational denitions of functional, imperative, concurrent, logic, and object-oriented programming languages.
143 Structured Analysis and Design of Business Systems In-depth study of business information system development cycle emphasizing analysis and design phases. Structured analysis and design techniques used to develop models of business information systems. Case studies such as payroll, inventory, accounts receivables, order entry, billing, etc., used. Prerequisites: 141; 142 or Computer Science 15. Three hours.
166. Vocational and Educational Guidance. (3) II. (Credit B) MWF,3. Dr.MAvEox
JJ27 Discrete "Simulation (3-0) (Same-as Business Administration_272.) Discrete simulation using monte-carlo tectiniques and the GPSS simulation processor; mathematical "modeling of systems; control systems; validationand sensitivity analyses. Prerequisites: Statistics 111, 141 or 151, senior or graduate standing. Three hours.
79-250 Topics in American Social and Intellectual History Units 12 Selected problems in the development of American political, social, religious and scientific thought. The interaction of ideology and institutional development will be stressed.
63 CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND PERSONALITY (2-2) Study of the biolog ical, psychological, and social growth and development of the child and his relationships with his family, peers and institutions. Observation in the pre school laboratory. Three hours
E-943 and E-944. P rintin g P ro ductio n. Planning, layout, estimating, scheduling and complete manufacture of all classes of printing. Prereq., all shop courses of Freshman, Sophomore and Junior years. Senior year, first semester, 6 hrs. shop, 6 units. Second year, two-year course, first and second semesters. First semester, 1 hr. rec., 6 hrs. shop, 2 hrs. prep., 9 units; second semester, 6 hrs. shop, 6 units. P r o fesso r G u st a fso n ; M e s s r s. M a r t in , T homas, P it k in .
H -ll and H-12. Physical Education. Exercises to promote co-ordination, health and endurance; athletic games; water sports and stroke analysis. Both H -ll and H-12 are offered each semester; H -ll, 2 hrs., 2 units; H-12, 3 hrs., 3 units.
54-315,316 Fall: 4 units M ovem ent for A ctors III Spring: 4 units
274 Reference Materials and Teaching the Use of Libraries. Prerequisite: EDLS 272 or equivalent. Three hours.
C-523 and C-524. P h y s i c a l E d u c a t io n (for Men). Continuation of work given in freshman year. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. gymnasium, 3 units.
E-949. S en io r T h e s is. A written report of a detailed investigation of a problem in the field of printing. Senior year, first semester, 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. P r o f e s s o r G u sta fs o n
21 DESIGN (1-4) Theory and application of the elements and principles of design. Three hours. Miss Caldwell and Mrs. Webster.
101A-101B-101C. Elementary Modern Western Armenian. (4-4-4) Course 101A is requisite to 101B, which is requisite to 101C. Armenian grammar, conversation, and exercises.
1VI 13 ab. Chemistry III. Lectures and laboratory work. This course deals with the aromatic compounds. Especial emphasis is placed on the preparation and properties of synthetic dyes. 24 units; 3 lec.; 6 hrs. lab. for 2 quarters.
82-430 German Literature of the Offered intermittently: Twentieth Century 9 units Selected authors from Hauptmann to Brecht. 3 hrs. rec. Pre requisite: 82-322 or equivalent.
GRK 227. Greek Lyric Poetry. 3 Credits. A study of early Greek personal, elegiac, and choral poetry from Archilochus to Pindar, including Sappho and Alcaeus, Simonides and Bacchylides. Prerequisites: Two years of college Greek or equivalent.
110A-110B-110C. Introduction to Classical Chinese. (4-4-4) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course 3. Grammar and readings in selected texts.
307 FUNDAMENTALS OF MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR An accelerated study of individual and group behavior in organizational settings. A managerial perspective is used to examine theories of motivation, perception, communication, group dynamics, leadership, organiza tion design, and organization development. Prerequisite: MBA standing. One and one-half hours.
C-729. Exchange and M oney. Division of labor, exchange, and trade; barter and other forerunners of commerce; relation to transportation and communication. The market; value and price; evolution of money as a medium of exchange; gold standard; alternative standards. Debt and credit; the func tions of banks; growth of American banking system; Federal Reserve System; government regulation. Relation of government financing to the monetary system. Prereq., C-711 and C-712, or the equivalent. Senior year; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
597. Preparation for PhD Qualifying Examinations. (2 to 12) Tutorial, four hours. May not be applied toward degree course requirements. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
88. Lower Division Seminar. (4) Seminar, three hours. Limited to freshmen. Variable topics; consult Schedule of Classes, College of Letters and Science, or department for topics to be offered in a specic term. May be repeated for credit.
C*-25. Geom etry I. Algebraic treatment of two or more lines; general theory of systems of lines and conics; envelopes, evolutes, and involutes. Space representations, lines, planes, quadrics, and ruled surfaces. Prereq., C-3, with which, however, it may be taken concurrently. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. Offered in 1942-43, and thereafter in alternate years.
1-513. V e n t i l a t i n g . Ventilation; methods of determining re quirements ; state and city law s; theory and design of relative merits of modern systems; controls; erecting temperature controls and ven tilating apparatus in experimental room; tests of heating equipment. Temperature regulation, including automatic temperature control, as used on individual units, as well as for temperature control for entire buildings. First semester; 2 hrs. lec., 5 hrs. shop, 5 hrs. prep., 12 units. Second semester; 3 hrs. lec., 3 hrs. shop, 3 hrs. prep., 9 units.
E*-141. C h em ical P rin c ip le s. Includes a study of those parts of theoretical chemistry which were of necessity omitted in elementary physical chemistry: chemical kinetics, surface phenomena, colloids, atomic structure and molecular structure. Prereq., E-126 or E-128. Chemistry. 2 hrs. lec. or rec., 3 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 9 units.
135 Business and Government in the International Arena Study of national government and international orga nization laws, regulations, and policies affecting international business, emphasizing trade and investment issues. Prerequi sites: 132, junior standing. Three hours.
142 Philosophy of Law I (Same as Political Science 123.) Analysis of the nature of law, the relation between law and morality, obligation to obey the law, the judicial decision, responsibility in law, legal ethics. Prerequisite: 1, 3,or 4 or Poli tical Science 31. Three hours.
43A-43n . Household Administration . (2-2) Yr . (Credit B) Miss Joxas , Miss JENSINs Prerequisite : Economics 1A, Psychology IA. Household equipment ; efficient and sanitary methods of work; business principles and administrative methods applicable to the household; care and training of children.
151. Survey of Modern Arabic Literature in English. (4) Lecture, three hours. Readings of selected texts covering basic literary trends from middle of the last century to the present.
73-476 American Economic History Fall or Spring: 9 units The study of economic history provides important perspective on current economic institutions and policies. A failure to understand the historical evolution of economic institutions or the variety of past economic experience is perhaps the worst shortcoming of many economists. The study of economic history provides an opportunity to test currently fashionable theories against data different from those used in their construction. In fact, this is a course in applied economics. The theories developed in the intermediate courses will be applied to episodes from the past in ways that increase understanding both of the specific historical episodes considered and the economic theories employed. Prerequi sites: 73-250 and 73-300.
2A. Elementary Modern Chinese for Advanced Beginners. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours; outside study, seven hours. Continuation of course 1A.
43 BASIC CONCEPTS OF FOOD AND NUTRITION (3-2) Food selection and preparation in relation to human growth and health. Basic principles of food selection presented through demonstration lectures. Four hours. I, II. Miss Wil liams.
1 INTRODUCTION TO ZOOLOGY (3-3) Fundamental life processes of ani mals, particularly at the cellular level, to give the general student an apprecia tion of these processes, and the science student a background for further study in zoology. Prerequisite: a course in high school chemistry is strongly recom mended. Four hours.
76-435 Gay and Lesbian Theory Fall or Spring: 9 units Lesbian and Gay Studies and, more recently, Queer Studies, have grown in importance In literary, cultural, and historical study. The am ount of materials dealing with "deviant" sexualities is huge; we will cut our way through this exciting and diverse territory by focusing on methodology. How Is sexuality read? W hat theories of meaning, identity, and culture Inform lesbian, gay, and queer studies? Instead of focusing on lesbians, gay men, transsexuals or transvestites as objects of study, this course will investigate how lesbian, gay, and queer readings and meanings are produced, negotiated, and suppressed. We will begin with Freud and Foucault, two theorists whose Ideas about sexuality circulate the most relentlessly through recent lesblan/gay and queer theory. Our study will not be confined, however, to theory. We will engage a broad selection of "canonical" texts In lesbian and gay studies literature, electronic media, and com munity-organizing and political practices as objects of study. Moving from the "canon" to more recent texts in queer and media studies, we will try to think through the methodological issues that arise from both the cultural practices and theories that define sexual "deviance."
H-5. M arriage (Elective). A study of personal relationships, courtship, marriage, and family life; given through lectures, discussions, and readings. Co-educational. Offered each semester. 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
E-955 and E-956. L ayo u t and D e sig n . T he principles of design and color are applied to p ractical problem s by m eans of sketches followed by dum m y layouts. D irect-by-m ail advertising is considered. Study of ornam ent, type faces, borders, paper, color, and th e choice of illustrative m aterial. The advertising appeal is stressed throughout the course. Prereq., E-953 and E-954. Ju n ior year, first and second semesters, 3 hrs. studio, 3 units each sem ester. P ro fesso r St e r l in g .
Geography VIII : Economic Geography In this course a study is made of the conditions which influence industry and commerce, as well as of the distribution, production, transportation, and use of raw materials . The larger operations in manufacturing , and the social conditions which attend "the factory. system" are considered. Particular attention is given to the industrial and commercial development of the United States. Prerequisite, same as for Geography II. Five hours. Five units.
E-62. E lectricity and M atter. Introduction to the electron theory of matter; measurements in gas ionization, radio-activity, electron emission, and allied subjects. Prereq., C-5 and E-43. Electrical, Junior year, and Chemistry and Physics, Senior year, second semester.
73-360 Econometrics 2 Spring: 9 units Econometrics 2 is a continuation of Econometrics 1. After reviewing elements of linear algebra, including the use of vector and matrix notation, students use it to analyze least squares estimation in the multivariate linear model. This is followed by a discussion of several of the assumptions on which least squares estimation is based, and what corrective actions should be taken if they are violated. The last part of the course moves into an analysis of random utility models of selection, and simultaneous equations models of supply and demand, to show how the techniques of regression analysis can be extended to quantify and test economic theories. Prerequisite: 73-360, or 36-225/226.
400C. Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course. (8) Discussion, eight hours. Requisite: course 400B. Multidisciplinary technical and socioeconomic analysis and prognosis of signicant current environmental problems.
253 Air Pollution (3-0) Sources of air pollution, methods of measurement, standards, transport theory and con trol techniques used. Emphasis on source measurement and contaminant transport. Prerequisites: Chemistry 5, Math. 21. Threehours.
258 Sociology of Law Analysis of the sociocultural structure of the legal institution and its relationships to other institutions: the social organization of the legal profession, lawmaking, and the courts. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
228 Organizational Development and Change Ex amination of basic and applied research on problems of organi zational effectiveness and innovation. Includes presentation of organizational development and change techniques and prac tical class exercises. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology, or one college course on organizations, or equivalent organizational experience with permission of instructor. Three hours.
244 Urban Transportation Systems (3-0) Transpor tation planning process for urban areas; inventory, use, and desire studies; travel forecasting and trip generation, distribu tion, and assignment; mass transit systems; terminal facilities. Prerequisite: Senior or graduate standing. Three hours.
1-510 . H e a t i n g S y s t e m s . D esign in g, H e a tin g and V en tilatin g system s, w ith fans, air w ashers, boilers, piping, ra d ia to r s ; specifica tions, estim atin g and co n tract w ork . Secon d se m e ste r; 2 hrs. lec., 3 hrs. shop, 4 hrs. prep., 9 units.
E-504. T h er m o d yn am ics and H ydraulic M easurem ents. Theory of measuring instruments and methods involving the laws of hydraulics and thermodynamics; measurement of flow of water, gases and vapors, moisture in steam, power generated and absorbed; tests on elements of machines, exper imental proof of theories taught in machine design and in elementary thermo dynamics. Prereq., E-21, E-43, E-221.
217 Corrections Analysis of the social structures and processes involved with individuals designated as offenders of criminal law: probation, prison, parole, and programs of pre vention and rehabilitation. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
C-352. Principles governing the distribution of wealth and the problems arising therefrom; taxation, public finance, interest, profits, rent and wages. Labor problems; transportation; socialism, and study of the methods of social reform. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
C-241 and 242. Elem entary Spanish. Beginning course covering the es sentials of the structure of the Spanish language, with the emphasis on pronun ciation and on the ability to understand the spoken language; conversation; composition; the more frequently occurring irregular verbs; elementary reading matter in the second semester. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
104A- 104u. History of Mathematics . (2-2) Yr. (Credit A, B) Tu Th, 1. Assistant Professor GTAeiaa A non-technical course open to students who have some knowledge of the fundamental ideas of analytic geometry and calculus.
E-69. P recision oe M easurements. Critical comparison of methods of measurements, including the adjustment of errors by the method of least squares. Prereq., C-44. Physics, Junior or Senior year, first semester. M r. B oreman.
GRNS 340. Clinical Practicum for the CNL. 1.5 Credit. This seminar provides an overview of the role of the Clinical Nurse Leader as a change agent at the point of care. Prerequisites: GRNS 321, GRNS 323, GRNS 324, GRNS 336, GRNS 337, GRNS 338, GRNS 339. Pre/Co-requisite: GRNS 324.
C-503. P syc h o lo g y of A d ju s t m e n t. The application of scientific psy chology to the common social and individual adjustment problems of normal people. It considers the processes of adjustive behavior, typical varieties of adjustment, the nature and growth of personality, and the techniques of men tal hygiene. Prereq., C-501 or C-671. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
1-814. A utomotive E ngineering T heory. A course of the autom otive vehicle theory based upon design and operative background. This course covers the basic theory of automobile and aircraft work.
C-19. E lem entar y T rigonometry. Review of those phases of geometry which are basic to trigonometry; a thorough drill in logarithmic computation and the use of the slide rule; the solution of triangles with practical applica tions. For Short Course students. Prereq., C-17. Second semester, 5 hrs. rec., 10 hrs. prep., 15 units.
176. Hydraulic Laboratory. This short course of about fifteen exercises includes experiments upon the flow of water through orifices, nozzles, weirs, pipes and open channels. The methods of testing meters, motors, etc.; constitute an important part of the course.
M-403 and M-404. R ecreation I. Introductory course for community workers; activities, organization, and administration of the social settlement; school, church, and playground as social centers; practical problems of neigh borhood activities, club programs, and development of the self-governing or ganization. Required for Social Work. Sophomore year, first and second semesters; 2 hrs. rec., 2 hrs. field work, 4 units.
169 COMMUNICATION METHODS (2-4) Presentation of information through the media of press, radio and television, and lecture-demonstration. Prerequisite: junior standing. Three hours.
341 REGRESSION, TIME SERIES, AND FORECASTING Application of regression analysis and of modern time-series techniques to managerial decision making and forecasting. Case method approach. Instruction in use of computer programs included. Prerequisite: MBA standing. Three hours.
73-357 Regulation: Theory and Policy Fall or Spring: 9 units There is hardly an aspect of our lives - our food, health care, work environment, the air we breathe, the places where we live - that is not subject to some government regulation. This course explores the origins, goals, and implementa tion of many major regulations. We use an analytical framework that considers the economic, political, and bureaucratic forces that create and shape regulation. This framework is developed and applied with reference to specific cases, including air pollution, auto safety (air bags), food additives, technological risk (nuclear reactors), occupational safety (asbestos, cotton dust), hospitals, airlines and trucking, and consumer protection (truth in advertising). Prerequisite: 73-250.
English VII : The Shakespearian Drama A reading of a number of Shakespeare's plays, and a careful study of two or more. Elements of dramatic technique: Sketch of the English drama before Shakespeare. Five hours. Five units.
II-12 PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMICS Fundamental economic principles as an aid to the understanding of modern economic society. Prerequisite: sophomore standing. Three hours.
317 Advanced Neuroscience. Current muitidisciplinary approaches to the study of brain and behavior, particularly systems neurophysiology and transmitter neuro pharmacology. Students pursue areas of special interest. Prerequisite: 302, Psych. 222, or permission. Three hours.
GRNS 396. Advanced Special Topics. 1-18 Credits. Topics of interest to graduate nursing which are based on theory, research or advanced practice. Course content will deal with topics beyond the scope of existing formal courses or thesis research. Prerequisite:Instructor permission.
E-501. M echanical M easurem ents. Theory of technical measuring, recording and calculating instruments; methods used in mechanical engineering measurement of mass, time, length, force, velocity, area, volume, pressure and temperature; use and calibration of important measuring instruments; practical illustrations in applied mechanics and simple hoisting machinery. Prereq., C-2.
1-303. E l e c t r i c C o n s t r u c tio n . Study of lighting circuits and switches, including 3 way, 4 way, master, heater and electrolier; ex tended study and selection of fittings and wiring devices from manu facturers catalogue; study of National Electric Code and other regulations governing installation; shop exercises with molding and conduit using various kinds of switches; instruction and practice in cutting and bending conduit polarization of circuits and testing; making shop drawings; study and installation of signal systems. Prereq., 1-301. Electric Equipment and Construction. Sophomore year. Second semester; 6 hrs. shop, 6 units.
120 HISTORY OF COSTUME (2-2) History of costume stressing the back ground philosophy and events of each period as reflected in dress. Adaptation of historic design to modern fashion. Prerequisite: 71 or permission of the in structor. Three hours. Miss Caldwell.
82-429 German Literature of the Offered intermittently: Nineteenth Century 9 units Readings from Romanticism through realism. 3 hrs. rec. Pre requisite: 82-322 or equivalent.
French I Beginning, or first year French . This course includes grammar, reading, composition, daily conversation , songs, study of various phases of French life, as the geography and history of the nation, government, schools, social customs, etc. Five hours. Five units.
236 EXPERIMENTAL FOOD PREPARATION (1-4) Methods and techniques in experimental work in foods. Independent laboratory study of problems in food preparation. Prerequisite: 135; agricultural biochemistry 172. Three hours. Miss Wiliiams.
203. Topics in Theoretical Epidemiology. (2) Lecture, two hours. Selected topics from current research areas in epidemiologic theory and quantitative methods. Topics selected from biologic models, epidemiologic models, problems in inference, model specication problems, design issues, analysis issues, and confounding.
109. Calculus : Third Course. (3) I. (Credit A, B) M W F, 9.. Prerequisite: course 9. Assistant Professor WoaTSINoTON
292 INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC PROBLEMS AND POLICIES Important as pects of international cooperation and conflict in the economic sphere; quest for foreign markets, raw materials, investment opportunities, and population outlets. Prerequisite: 11-12. Three hours
C-335 and C-336. H istory I. M edieval H istory. Europe from the fourth to the fifteenth century: (Later Roman Empire; Teutonic migrations; growth of the Church; rise of the Papacy; formation of the Frankish Kingdom and Holy Roman Empire; feudalism; crusades; growth of towns; develop ment of commerce; rise of national states.) First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
GRK 296. Advanced Special Topics. 1-18 Credits. Advanced courses or seminars on topics beyond the scope of existing departmental offerings. See Schedule of Courses for specific titles.
73-380 Strategy in Economics and Politics Fall or Spring: 9 units If the superpowers want to avoid nuclear war, why is there an arms race? Why do corporations pay greenmail or use poison pills to avoid takeovers? There are many interesting situations like these in economics and politics, situations in which making the best decision requires one to consider how others will respond. This course studies many such situations, including economic examples such as entry deterrence, takeover bids, and strikes; and political examples such as the arms race and nuclear strategy, U.S. foreign policy, and elections. The courses goal is to draw out the fundamental principles underlying strategic decision making. Prerequisite: 73-250.
181A. A study of athletic programs in schools and colleges , including the analysis and selection of activities ; measurement of achievement; evaluation of social and physical values of team games ; selection and care of athletic equipment and construction and upkeep of fields. The organization and management of playdays , meets , and tournaments with actual experience in conducting the fall playday for the Los Angeles County Elementary Schools.
240A-2408 -240C. Theory of Social Work Method (Community Organization) 1, 11, III. (1/2 course each) Concurrent practicum in social work required. Covers historical and theoretical developments in community organization; understanding the community as a social system; role of the practitioner in identification, analysis and evaluation of needs, existing programs, policies, structures and strategies of intervention.
102A-102B-102C. Intermediate Modern Western Armenian. (4-4-4) Requisite: course 101C. Course 102A is requisite to 102B, which is requisite to 102C. Reading of selected texts, composition, and conversation.
Geography I: Elementary Physiography This course is for students not offering entrance recommendations in physical geography. Considerable time is devoted to laboratory and field work. Much attention is given to the use of topographic maps and models. Five hours. Five units.
205. Group Conflict and Change. (1/2 course) Study of the phenomena of group conflict and change as they appear in the social welfare matrix of groups, communities and social institutions; relationship between conflict and social and cultural change; major research contributions in understanding of these phenomena.
273A. Public Utility Regulation. (4) Lecture, three hours. Theory, practice, and consequences of regulation in electric power, gas, water, telecommunications, broadcasting, and other regulated industries; experiences of unregulated monopoly and public enterprises by way of contrast.
205 RURAL COMMUNITIES IN MODERN SOCIETY See Sociology 205. Three hours.
818. Summer Shop Work. (3). (Credit A, B) (144 working hours required .) Assistant Professor MAxsvima Shop work in pattern making and foundry practice or in machine shop practice.
178. Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineering. This course is a continuation of No. 177.
M20. Visible Language: Study of Writing. (5) (Same as Asian M20, Near Eastern Languages M20, Slavic M20, and Southeast Asian M20.) Lecture, three hours. Consideration of concrete means of language representation in writing systems. Earliest representations of language known are those of Near East dating to end of 4th Millennium B.C. While literate civilizations of Egypt, Indus Valley, China, and Mesoamerica left little evidence of corresponding earliest developments, their antiquity and, in case of China and Mesoamerica, their evident isolation mark these centers as loci of independent developments in writing. Basic characteristics of early scripts, assessment of modern alphabetic writing systems, and presentation of conceptual basis of semiotic language representation. Origins and development of early non-Western writing systems. How Greco-Roman alphabet arose in 1st Millennium B.C. and how it compares to other modern writing systems.
281A. International Trade Theory. (4) Lecture, three hours. Theoretical and empirical analysis of microeconomic relationships among countries. Determinants of commodity and factor ows, prices, and factor rewards. Effects of trade barriers.
285, 286 Internship Prerequisites: Twelve hours of sociology including at least one 200-level course in substantive area relevant to field placement, permission of department.
297, 298 SEMINAR For students concentrating in the department. Review of recent books and periodical literature; discussions of topics of contemporary interest; student reports based upon personal investigation. Prerequisite: senior standing; consent of chairman. Three hours.
137 MEAL MANAGEMENT (1-5) Principles and practice in planning, pre paring and serving family meals at different cost levels. Prerequisite: 35, 43. Three hours. I, II. Miss Williams.
101. Introduction to European Studies. (4) (Formerly numbered M101.) Discussion, three hours; outside study, nine hours. Limited to and required of European Studies majors. Interdisciplinary seminar that introduces students to central topics, themes, and concepts of European studies, including the individual and the state, cultural life, economic relations, nationalism, and international relations.
1-924. P rinters' Cost A ccounting. Based on the findings and recommendations of the Cost Commission; problems in cost finding;
82-261/2 Fall: 9 units Intermediate Italian or Spring: 9 units An integrated approach to the study of Italian language and culture, consisting of grammar review, readings, and intensive practice in written and spoken Italian, 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-162 or equivalent.
3 9 -4 9 9 S u m m e r C u rric u la r P ra ctica l T ra in in g S u m m e r: 3 u n its The college of engineering at Carnegie Mellon considers experiential learning opportunities im po rtan t educational options for its undergraduate students. One such option is an internship, normally completed during the summer. Students do not need to officially register for an internship unless they want it listed on th e ir official transcripts. CIT students interested in registering their internship for course credit on their transcript may enroll in this course. To do so, students m ust com plete a CIT Internship form (located in Scaife Hall 110) and subm it for approval. The CIT Undergraduate Studies Office will add the course to the student's schedule, and the student will be assessed tuition for 3 units. Upon com pletion of the internship, students m ust subm it a 1-2 page report of their work experience, and a 1-2 page evaluation from the com pany supervisor to the CIT Undergraduate Office. A fter the reports has been reviewed and approved, a "P" grade will be assigned. This process should be used by international students interested in C urricular Practical Training (CPT) or by any other engineering undergraduate wishing to have the ir internship experience reflected on the ir official U niversity transcript. Interna tiona l students should also be authorized by the Office of International Education (OIE). More inform ation regarding CPT is available on OIE's website.
M278. Statistical Analysis of DNA Microarray Data. (4) (Same as Biostatistics M278.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: Biostatistics 200C. Instruction in use of statistical tools used to analyze microarray data. Structure corresponds to analytical protocol an investigator might follow when working with microarray data.
82-110 Self-Study in Less Commonly Taught Languages Offered Intermittently: 12 units From time to time, the Department may offer a two-semester self-instructional sequence of study in one of the so-called less commonly taught languages (e.g., Indonesian, Korean,Swahili). The course will provide individualized language instruction for students working at their own pace in consultation with a tutor using materials identified by the National Association of Self Instructional Language Programs. Courses emphasize the development of oral-aural skills and introduce basic reading and writing.
201A-201B-201C. Dynamics of Human Behavior I, II, III. (1/2 course each) Lecture, two hours; laboratory, one hour. Credit to be given at the completion of the sequence 201 A-201 B; 201 C will be graded separately. Biopsychosocial factors associated with individual and group behavior and development as applicable in the social functioning of individuals and groups. Emphasis is on theoretical issues and research evidence which contribute to a unified theory of human development.
165 METHODS OF TEACHING Methods of teaching home economics in jun ior and senior high schools, and of general administration of home economics departments in secondary schools. Prerequisite: 115, psychology 1. Three hours.
GE655 Metallurgical Problems First and second semester, units to be assigned Individual problems, including laboratory, library, or design work with comprehensive report on some specific phase of work in modern metallurgy.
301 Medical Physiology and Biophysics. Function in the whole human organism, and at the cellular, tissue, and organ levels, considered biologically and physically. Pre requisite: Permission of department chair man. Eight hours. Staff.
E-134, E-135, E-138 and E-139. C h em ist r y Sem in a r. R eport on original articles in curren t chem ical literature of G erm an and Fren ch as well as English and Am erican journals. Prereq., E-106, E-112, E-118, E-121. 1 hr. rec., 1 unit. P ro fesso rs G r if f in , A l e x a n d e r , St e v e n s, Se l t z, W a r n e r ; D r . S t f m p e l.
284. Soviet Economic Theory and Organization. (4) Lecture, three hours. Overall strategy of planning used by U.S.S.R. planners and specic planning methods, interpreted broadly to cover not only instructions and objectives but also institutional arrangements. Intended and unintended outcomes of the methods.
278 The Development of Sociological Theory Ma jor classical traditions in sociological theory and their contem porary research relevance. Includes detailed critical examina tion of the contributions of Marx, Spencer, Durkheim, Weber, Simmel, Pareto, and Mead. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology or equivalent preparation in another social science with per mission of instructor. Three hours.
300, 301 INDEPENDENT READING AND RESEARCH Designed to meet the special research problems of graduate students. Consent of the department re quired
C-l 1. V ocational M athematics I. Drill for accuracy and speed, on the fundamental operations of arithmetic; ratio and propor tion, percentage, denominate numbers, involution and evolution. Sufficient algebra to enable the students to evaluate shop formulae. For short course students who have not had algebra. First semes ter ; 5 hrs. rec., 10 hrs. prep., 15 units.
E-122. C h em ic a l T e c h n o lo g y. The course consists in the preparation of reports by the individual students which are presented to the class in the form of lectures. The list of subjects assigned comprises the more important processes of industrial chemistry, both inorganic and organic. Prereq., E-112, E-118. 2 hrs. lec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. D r . J am es or D r . B e r l .
C-176. E nglish L iterature. Lectures on modern literature, reading and class discussion of nineteenth and twentieth century essays, plays, and novels. Elective for Seniors, second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
599. Individual Research: Ph.D. Dissertation. (2 to 8) Preparation: advancement to Ph.D. candidacy. Directed individual research in preparation of Ph.D. dissertation.
130A-130B. Readings in Modern Chinese Literature. (4-4) Readings/discussion, three hours. Requisite: course 100B. Readings and discussion of works of modern Chinese literature.
231A-231B-231C. Intermediate Classical Armenian. (4-4-4) (Formerly numbered 131A-131B.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 230C. Course 231A is not requisite to 231B, which is not requisite to 231C. Intensive review of grammar and reading of select prose and poetic texts.
E*-142. C h em ical P rin c ip le s E le c tr o c h e m is tr y . Thermodynamic properties of.electrolytic solutions. Modern theories of strong electrolytes and of acids and bases. Polarity of molecules and the theory of dielectrics. Reversible cells, electrode potentials, liquid junction potentials. Irreversible electrode phenomena, polarization and overvoltage. Theoretical electro chemistry applied to a discussion of corrosion, primary cells, storage cells, electroplating, electrolytic refining and extraction, processes for the produc tion of chemical products by electrolysis, etc. Prereq., E-123, E-126 or E-121. 2 hrs. lec., 3 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 9 units.
597. Preparation for Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
152 INTRODUCTION TO TEACHING VOCATIONAL AGRICULTURE (1-2) In troduction to the vocational education acts and major program objectives; the determination of instructional needs, and development of farming programs for high school students. Development of the philosophy of problem solving in agri cultural education, and a general orientation to the work of the teacher of voca tional agriculture. Prerequisite: junior standing, or departmental permission. Two hours. Dr. Gaylord.
C-392. G eneral Econom ics II. A survey of the various problems con fronting the nation; agricultural, financial, trade and transportation, labor, immigration, with particular reference to their economic and social aspects. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
242 Public Opinion: Theory and Research (Same as Political Science 285.)* Examination of theories of public opin ion. Topics include: attitude formation and change, political ideology, alienation and allegiance, political socialization, tolerance, and political extremism. Prerequisite: 241 (Political Science 284) or permission of instructor. Three hours.
400D. Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course. (8) Discussion, eight hours. Preparation: successful completion of internship approved by doctoral committee and program director. Requisite: course 400C. Multidisciplinary technical and socioeconomic analysis and prognosis of signicant current environmental problems.
25-26 ELECTRIC CIRCUITS I (3-3) Basic electric circuit elements and their behavior in d-c and a-c circuits with lumped constants. Electric, magnetic circuits and electromagnetic interactions. Prerequisite: physics 14, concurrent enrollment in madiematics 12 and physics 15 for 25; mathematics 21 and physics 16 for 26. Four hours.
251A- 251B . Supervision of Instruction and Curriculum . (2-2)
202A-2028 . Dynamics of Human Behavior: Deviance IV, V. (1/2 course each) Prerequisites: courses 201 A-201 B-201 C. Credit to be given only at the completion of the sequence. This course deals with deviations and pathologies or stresses in the physical, emotional and social areas of human functioning as those problems relate to the role and function of the social worker.
208 School Health Programs. Organiza tion of the total school health program. Problems and administration in the area of school environment, health services, health education, and school-community relation ship. Prerequisite: 46 or equivalent. Three hours.
66 AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS (2-2) Management problems of rural business firms including agricultural cooperatives, especially those handling farm pro duce and supplies. Theoretical and practical considerations in the organization and operation of agricultural businesses with emphasis on financial and legal organization, accounting and budgeting procedures, and tax policies. Prerequi site: sophomore standing. Three hours.
341 MANAGERIAL ECONOMICS Techniques used in management decision making and forward planning. Demand and cost analysis, forecasting methods, capital management and budgetary planning. Prerequisite: 187, 188 or its equivalent and 286. Three hours
10. Structure of English Words. (4) Lecture, three to four hours. Introduction to structure of English words of classical origin, including most common base forms and rules by which alternate forms are derived. Students may expect to achieve substantial enrichment of their vocabulary while learning about etymology, semantic change, and abstract rules of English word formation.
226A- 226B . Business Education . (2-2) Yr. Mr. Wanous For teachers and students of graduate standing interested in problems related to the organization and supervision of business training on high school and junior college levels . Admission on consultation with the instructor.
3 Comparative East-West Philosophy* Introduction to the historical dialectic of philosophy by comparisons and contrasts between Chinese and Western traditions of philo sophy. Three hours.
C-352. G e n e r a l E conomics II. Principles governing the distribution of wealth and the problems arising therefrom; taxation, public finance, interest, profits, rent and wages. Labor problems; transportation; socialism, and study of the methods of social reform. Prereq., C-351. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units each semester. A l l M e m b er s of t h e D epa r t m e n t.
BSAD 293 - Integrated Product Development (Cross-lised with Mechanical Engineering 265, Statisics 265.) Project-based course focusing on the entire product life cycle. Team dynamics, process and product design, quality, materials, management, and environmentally-conscious manufacturing. Prerequisite: Senior sanding. Credits: 3.00
340 QUANTITATIVE METHODS IN MANAGEMENT The application of statistical tools to management problems. Sampling, decision-making, and strategy selection are covered. Prerequisite: MBA standing. Three hours.
A-1S32. B lackboard D rawing. Instruction in technique of drawing at the board; building of a vocabulary; rectilinear objects; curviliniar objects; flowers; animals; linemen; birds; permanent blackboard decoration. Junior year, 3 hrs. technical work, 3 hrs. prep., 6 units.
54-245,246 Fall: 6 units History of Costum e Spring: 6 units A guide to historical shapes with emphasis on the basis period silhouette, the manner in which it is trimmed, how the costume is worn and the social influences on it. Presented by illustrated lecture and slides of primary sources with supplementary re search projects.
175. Linguistic Change in English. (4) Requisites: courses 110, 120A, 120B. Principles of linguistic change as exemplied through detailed study of history of English pronunciation, lexicon, and syntax.
82-381/781 Issues and Trends in Second Language Learning and Teaching Fall: 9/12 units This course is directed toward those who intend to teach foreign or second languages. The course will focus on the relationship between theories of second language learning and approaches to second language teaching. The course will begin by introducing students to the concept of language needs assessment, and will then provide a broad introduction to the major approaches, methods, and techniques currently used with a view toward helping students understand the major strengths and weaknesses of the various methods. It will address such issues as the difference between tutored (classroom-based) second language learning and natural second language acquisition, second language learning that takes place in the native language environment (e.g., English as a second language in the U.S.) as contrasted with language learning that takes place out of the host country (e.g., learning French in the U.S.). In addition to classroom discussion, students will spend time observing classes or tutorial sessions in which the target language is being taught as a second language by experienced teachers. Students who take this course as part of the minor in TESOL will be required to add 3 units of practice teaching in ICC as part of the course.
119. H o is t in g a n d C o n v e y in g M a c h i n e r y . The purpose of this course is to give the student a broad acquaintance with ma chines that are used for the lifting and carrying of materials in all branches of engineering work. The lectures are illustrated with lantern slides and cover practically the entire field of hoisting and conveying machinery, with particular relation to their design, use, efficiency, first cost, and maintenance. The development of each type and its essential features of design are discussed in detail, and the general methods of calculation are illustrated by practical examples and problems.
106 HOUSE PLANNING An advanced study of housing design to meet family requirements, application of home management principles. Prerequisite: 51, 101. Three hours.
21OA-2108 -210C. Social Ecology. Prerequisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Exploration of data and theories from the biological and policy sciences regarding ecological relationships. Review of current biophysical, sociocultural, demographic, technological, economic, and political changes as they affect human society, its institutions and, more particularly, social welfare needs.
73-371 International Trade and Economic Development Fall or Spring: 9 units This course examines the economic rationale for trade among nations and its consequences for the citizens of the nations involved. Topics to be considered include comparative advantage, gains from trade, possible gains from taxsubsidy programs, traditional and recent arguments for protection, and the effects of special trade arrangements such as regional trade zones. In addition, the course considers the effects of trade and other policies on economic growth and development. Emphasis is given to the principal analytical concepts and results relevant to the special problems of developing nations. Prerequisites: 73-250 and 73-300.
79-251 Patterns in American Thought Units 12 Examination of selected themes in the history of American thought. Focus will be placed on major thinkers such as Jefferson, Madison, Calhoun, Emerson, Dewey and Niebuhr. Prereq. 79-505 or 79-506.
GRNS 339. CNL Project & Seminar I. 1 Credit. This seminar provides structure for the development of the Clinical Nurse Leader Project. Prerequisites: GRNS 321, GRNS 322, GRNS 323, GRNS 335, GRNS 336, GRNS 338. Pre/Co-requisites: GRNS 322, GRNS 337.
C-3S1. E l e m e n t a r y E c o n o m i c s . Principles governing production of wealth. Exchange and related problems; money, banking, crises and use of index num bers, international trade. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
Handwork II Emphasis is placed on simple cardboard and thin wood construction. Prerequisite , Handwork I. Five hours. Three units.
226 Civil Engineering Systems Analysis (3-0) Graph theory, dynamic programming, linear programming, scheduling, resource allocation, simulation; applications to public works problems; comparison of solution models and selection of models for complex problems. Prerequisite: Senior or graduate standing. Threehours.
155. Armenian American Literature and Culture. (4) Theoretically informed exploration of some of most salient questions related to Armenian American community as reected in its literature and other cultural artifacts in interaction with its pluralistic American ambience.
1-2 INTRODUCTORY GEOLOGY (3-2) The composition, struc ture, and surface forms of the earth, and the agencies active in their produc tion; a general survey of the earth's history as recorded in the rocks. Field trips and lantern slides. Four hours.
C-511. H y g ie n e (for Women). Lectures on personal hygiene. First semester; 1 hr. lec., 1 hr. prep., 2 units.
180 Managerial Finance The financial function in the corporation described. Techniques for evaluating current use of resources and proposed resource acquisitions or dispositions covered. Prerequisites: 61, Economics 12, Statistics 141, junior standing. Three hours.
253 METHODS OF TEACHING YOUNG AND ADULT FARMER CLASSES IN VO CATIONAL AGRICULTURE (2-2) Determining needs, problems and objectives for education of young and adult farmers; selecting positions, planning courses, and developing teaching plans; use of on-farm instructions; demonstrations and other suitable methods, techniques and instructional materials; use of advisory groups; progress evaluation; role of young farmer associations. Prerequisite: 104 and 152 or departmental permission. Three hours.
3 6 -6 2 6 P ro b a b ility and M a th e m a tic a l S ta tis tic s I I S p rin g : 12 u n its A continuation of 36-625 em phasizing statisticals models and methods. Topics include regression, m ultivariate models, causal inference, directed graphs, undirected graphs, curve estimation, classification, simulation. Students studying Computer Science should carefully consider taking this course instead of or 36-226 after consultation with their advisor. Prerequisites: 36625
1-2 FRESHMAN ENGLISH Study and discussion of selected literary works and writing compositions related to them, to encourage reading with under standing and enjoyment and to develop clear and effective expression. Required of all freshmen. Three hours.
BSAD 270 - Quant Anyl for Managerial Dec Application of management science methods to managerial decision making, emphasizing modeling and use of solution results. Topics include mathematical programming, waiting-line analysis, and computer simulation. Prerequisite: STAT141, MATH 020 or MATH 021. Credits: 3.00
168 STUDENT TEACHING Supervised observation and teaching in approved secondary schools in Vermont. Prerequisite: 165. Seven hours
15. PERIODICAL WRITING. News and article writing the first semester, short story and other forms the second semester. Three hours.
381,382 SEMINAR Current problems and literature. One hour.
M-402. Social Problems of th e Cit y. Repetition of M-401.
182. Corrective Physical Education. (('..,IL Miss Grunwald Prerequisite : course 149. Study of body mechanics and of the causes and treatment of faulty antero -posterior and lateral deviations and foot and leg conditions, with special emphasis on the individual program adaptations and corrective rocedures .
M 32. Physiology. This course includes the elements of anatomy of the human body and selected laboratory experiments illustrating essential physiological processes. 9 units; 2 lec.; 4 hrs. lab.
180 Soil Mechanics (3-3) (Same as Geology 180.) Iden tification, description, and physical properties of soils; charac teristics of natural deposits; stress distribution, permeability, consolidation, shear strength, and stability of soils; laboratory testing of particulate systems. Prerequisite: 100. Four hours.
5 4 -3 4 3 ,3 4 4 Fall: 6 units Costum e Construction I Spring: 6 units Study of and practical work in primary costume construction principles; emphasis on the development of patterns from the basic costume shapes through history.
C-283 and C-284. I n t er m ed ia t e S pa n ish . Review of inflections and syn tax; system atic study of the irregular verbs; reading and translation of short stories and easy plays; com position; conversation on th e te x t read. Prereq., C-241 and C-242, or one year of high school Spanish, or the equivalent. 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units each sem ester. P ro fesso r A lem a n y.
21-22 THE AMERICAN COLONIES American history to 1783. Prerequisite: sophomore standing. Three hours
325 VIROLOGY Introduction to the nature of viruses, their physical, chem ical, and biological characteristics with special reference to cell-virus inter action, viral replication, pathogenesis, viral inhibitors, and oncogenic viruses.
102A-102B-102C. Advanced Berber. (4-4-4) Requisites: courses 101A-101B-101C. Advanced study of Berber. Regional and stylistic variants in folk literature.
142 FLUID MECHANICS (3-0) Fluid statics. Kinematics of fluid flow; thermodynamics of steady flow of any fluid; dynamics of an ideal fluid; viscosity; dimensional analysis and dynamic similarity; pipe and channel flow for incom pressible , fluids; momentum and propulsion; resistance and lift of immersed bodies; compressible fluid flow in nozzles; mathematical study of fluid motion. Prerequisite: 111 or 113; C.E. 130. Three hours.
191, 192 THESIS (0-9) Investigation of a research or design project under the supervision of an assigned staff member culminating in an acceptable thesis. Prerequisite: senior standing and the approval of the department. Three hours.
GRK 202. Greek Comedy. 3 Credits. Two plays of Aristophanes. Alternate years, as needed.
E-68. P yrom etry. High temperature measurements. Prereq., E-43. Mechani cal Heat Option, Chemistry and Physics. Junior or Senior year, second semester. Mr. P rine.
11 MINERALOGY (2-2) The crystallographic and physical properties of minerals, and their determination by means of the blowpipe. Prerequisite: 1-2. Three hours.
C130. Language Development. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 20, 120A, 120B. Survey of research and theoretical perspectives in language development in children. Discussion and examination of child language data from English and other languages. Emphasis on universals of language development. Topics include infant speech perception and production, development of phonology, morphology, syntax, and word meaning.
51 AGRICULTURAL FINANCE (2-2) Capital requirements of American agri culture; analysis of the financial problems of farmers; types and sources of credit and the lending problems and practices of farm credit institutions. Pre requisite: sophomore standing. Three hours.
171L. Data Communication Systems Laboratory. (2 to 4) Laboratory, four to eight hours; outside study, two to four hours. Recommended preparation: courses M152A, 171. Limited to seniors. Interpretation of analog-signaling aspects of digital systems and data communications through experience in using contemporary test instruments to generate and display signals in relevant laboratory setups. Use of oscilloscopes (and CRT cameras), pulse and function generators, baseband spectrum analyzers, desktop analog computers, terminals, modems, PCs, and workstations in experiments on pulse transmission impairments, waveforms and their spectra, modem and terminal characteristics, and interfaces.
293-294 MONEY, INCOME AND PRICES Analysis and description of cyclical fluctuations. Second semester: problems of cyclical control, employment, price levels, overall planning. Prerequisite: 201-202 or concurrent enrollment.
23, 24 HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES American history since 1783. Prerequisite: sophomore standing; 23 for 24. Three hours
A-210. Rehearsal and Performance. The subject is subdivided as follows: Sophomore Year. The work of the sophomore year includes class work and exercises in period styles of acting, and rehearsal and performance in plays produced in the Studio Theatre. Junior and Senior Years. Beginning With the junior year, the student in Rehearsal and Performance becomes a member of the company from which all major productions are cast. The variety in type and style of the plays produced and the distinctive methods of the members of the faculty who direct these productions insure valuable training and breadth of experience. The student will also have an opportunity to appear in Studio Theatre productions. May be taken in blocks of units varying from 4 to 24.
11A. Elementary Food (Household Science 1A). (3) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) Miss ALLEN, Miss JENKINS Prerequisite : Chemistry 2A. The production , transportation , and marketing of -food materials; the principles involved in food preparation and preservation; compilation of recipes ; practice in judging food preparations.
GRNS 336. Adv Phamacology CNL. 2 Credits. This course will provide an in-depth examination of the pharmacotherapeutics and pharmacodynamics of selected drugs used to manage common health conditions across the lifespan. This course is the first of a two-course sequence in pharmacotherapeutics for clinical nurse leaders. Pre/Co-requisite: GRNS 335.
GRNS 402. Leadership in Adv Nursing. 3 Credits. Strategic leadership in organizations and systems to promote ethical transformation of health care systems. Pre/Co-requisites: GRNS 322, GRNS 323, GRNS 400, NH 302.
160. Field Methods. (6) Discussion, four hours; individual or group sessions, one to two hours. Requisites: courses 103, 120A, 120B. Analysis of a language unknown to members of class from data elicited from a native speaker of the language.
11. POETRY OF THE ENGLISH RENAISSANCE. Lectures and textual study of selected passages from the more important works of Spenser, Milton, and their contemporaries. Three hours,
151. Canon Formation and Encounter with Modernity: Case Studies in Armenian Literature. (4) Discussion of fundamental themes and genres around which Armenian literary tradition evolved and modalities by which this has been transformed in course of last two centuries as a result of exposure to European thought and expressive forms, as well as its response to sociopolitical, demographic, and economic changes in Armenian life.
199. Special Studies. (2 to 4) Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation: submission of written proposal outlining course of study. Limited to seniors. Individual undergraduate guided studies under direct faculty supervision. Study to be structured by instructor and student at time of initial enrollment.
251 MODERN BIOCHEMICAL TECHNIQUES (1-4) Laboratory work and supplementary lectures on radioisotopic tracer techniques, paper chromatogra phy, radioautography and biochemical preparation. Prerequisite: 172 or Medical Biochemistry 201 and departmental permission. Three hours. Dr. Racusen.
M115. Survey of African Languages. (4) (Same as African Languages M190.) Requisite: course 20. Introduction to languages of Africa, their distribution and classication, and their phonological and grammatical structures; elementary practice in several languages.
232 COMPRESSIBLE FLOW (3-0) One-dimensional compressible flow; un steady fluid motions; two-dimensional flow at subsonic and supersonic speeds. Prerequisite: 243. Three hours.
201. History of Education . (2) I. Mr . Wooton A survey of educational ideas and practices in the history of western civilization
501. Cooperative Program. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation: consent of UCLA graduate adviser and graduate dean, and host campus instructor, department chair, and graduate dean. Used to record enrollment of UCLA students in courses taken under cooperative arrangements with USC.
C-545 and C-546. Ph ysical E ducation III. Sports and individual games (tennis, swimming, etc.). Elective for Juniors and Seniors. First and second semesters; 3 hrs., 3 units.
GE-G58 (2nd sem.). Advanced Metallurgical Operations. Analysis of smelting and refining processes by engineering principles and physical chemistry to determine the factors that limit production rates, thermal requirements, and related operating variables. Shaft, reverberatory and electric furnaces and converter processes will be dealt with, including recent innovations or adaptations. Prereq., A, B, C, D, F.* 2 hrs. lec., 8 units.
76. P r i n c i p l e s o f D i r e c t C u r r e n t s . T he elem entary prin ciples and laws given during the first year are review ed and studied more in detail and the student is trained in the application of these laws to comm ercial problems.
16 The High and Later Middle Ages Western Europe from the Age of the Crusades to the Renaissance. Three hours.
62. H ig h w a y E n g in e e r in g . T his course covers the location, construction, and m aintenance of roads and the construction and m aintenance of street pavem ents.
C-262. E ducational M easurem ents. A survey of the field of mental and educational tests and scales with the practical application and statistical treatment of results in practice, comparison and criticism of the testing in struments now available, with special emphasis on the importance of the test ing movement in educational theory and progress. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
M-463. S ocial Statistics I. Elements of statistical methods as applied to social problems. Required for Social Work. Senior year, first semester; 2 hrs. rec., 2 hrs. lab., 2 hrs. prep., 6 units.
EDHE 220. Stress Mgmt Hlth Professionals. 3 Credits. Physiological, psychological, and sociological aspects of stress. Theory, practices, teaching techniques, and application relevant to teaching students and/or clients. Prerequisite: EDHE 046 or equivalent.
79-241 Racial Relations in American History Units 12 The role of the Negro in American history. For comparative purposes, the course will also deal with the American Indian and the European immigrant. Emphasis will be placed on the social and cultural aspects of the contact between racial minorities and the majority groups. Concern will also be given to political and economic factors.
C-219 and C-220. A dvanced Scientific French. The aim of this course is to develop rapid and intelligent sight reading, therefore all the reading matter is taken from current scientific and technical magazines and reviews; brief study of cognates and the inter-relation of English and French. Prereq., two years of high school French or the equivalent. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
E-951 and E -952. L e t t e r in g . Drawing of roman and italic capital and lower-case alphabets in the forms suitable for association with typography and useful in the making of layouts. Analysis of the standard type faces. Fresh man year, first and second semesters, 3 hrs. studio, 3 units each semester. P ro fesso r St e r l in g .
82-281 Tutoring for Community Outreach Offered Intermittently: Variable units The purpose of this class is to enable students to participate in a community outreach program by working in the Pittsburgh Public Schools with either (A) elementary school students of ESL or (B) high school students of French, German, Japanese, or, Spanish, and tutoring at Greenfield Elementary School. The high school experience will involve advanced students, majors, or minors in French, German, Japanese, or Spanish to tutor language students at Schenley High School. This tutoring may be remedial or it may be part of the Schenley students preparation for International Baccalaureate Exams in the Spring. During the early weeks of the semester, students will meet individually with the instructor to arrange their community outreach activities and also as a group to prepare for their experience. Depending on the number of units to be earned, during the course of the semester, students will spend a certain number of hours per week engaged in some of the following activities: attending and participating in the individual and group meetings, tutoring one or two hours per week, reading and preparing for the tutoring sessions, keeping a journal of one's tutoring experiences, and writing a paper at the end of the term reflecting critically on ones experiences.
597. Examination Preparation. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
3 9 -5 0 0 H on o rs R esearch P ro je c t A ll S e m e s te rs : 1 -3 6 u n its This course, open by invitation only, will provide the opportunity for close interaction with a faculty m em ber through independent research in a num ber of disciplinary and interdisciplinary areas.
74. R i v e r a n d H a r b o r I m p r o v e m e n ts . Including a dis cussion of the problem s encountered and m ethods of m eeting them . The class-room w ork is supplem ented b y draw ing-room exercises in the design of sewerage and w ater-supply system s, conduits, dam s, etc. Department of Electrical Engineering
E*-135. Q u a n tita tiv e O rg a n ic A n a ly sis. Semi-micro-methods for the quantitative determination of the elements in organic compounds. Prereq., E-113, E-118. 6 hrs. lab., 6 units.
175. H ydraulics. In this course the fundamental principles of hydrostatics and hydrodynamics are taught, together with some of their applications to general hydraulics. Among the topics dis cussed are: Fluids and their properties; pressure, conditions of equilibrium; fluids in motion; discharge from orifices; flow over weirs and through pipes; flow of water in open channels. The energy and reaction of jets, pressure of water upon curved vanes and the fundamental principles of hydraulic motors are discussed.
197. Special Topics in Linguistics. (4) Requisite: course 1 or 20. Variable topics selected from any undergraduate linguistics course area in which students desire greater in-depth knowledge.
412. Effective Technical Writing. (2) (Formerly numbered 298.) Lecture, one hour. Designed for environmental science and engineering doctoral students. Essentials of grammar, punctuation, syntax, organization, and format needed to produce well-written journal articles, research reports, memoranda, letters, and rsums. Emphasis on accuracy, clarity, conciseness, and avoidance of common errors in advanced technical writing, using critique, exercises, and examples.
C160. Indo-European Comparative Mythology and Poetics. (4) Seminar, three hours. Preparation: familiarity with at least one ancient Indo-European language. Comparison of major Indo-European mythological and poetic traditions and reconstruction of their common sources. Topics include divinities and their names; symbolic systems in social context; myths, folk narratives, belief systems; relations with other traditions; literary continuations of mythopoetic material.
252 Molecular Genetics II: Regulation of Gene Ex pression in Eukaryotes Expression of genetic information in nucleic acids; knowledge generated from recombinant DNA techniques applied to higher cells; control in transposition, transformation, transcription, and processing transcript. Pre requisites: Biology 101 or Biochemistry 301, or equivalents; Microbiology 211 preferred; permission of instructor. Three hours.
PLANE AND SPHERICAL TRIGONOMETRY Prerequisite : University entrance credit in Elementary Algebra, Plane and Solid Geometry, and Normal School Mathematics II. The derivation of the more important formulae of trigonometry; logarithmic calculations ; application of trigonometry to mensuration. Three hours for one semester.
491 DOCTORAL DISSERTATION RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
1-816. G as and Steam E n g in e s. A brief course in prime movers, such as are found in general construction work. Studies are made of boilers and their attachm ents, pumps, steam engines, internal combustion engines and their attachm ents, such as carburetors, ignition systems, etc. Studies are made of power output requirements of prime movers and problems relating to power demands. Laboratory equipm ent is used for study and dem onstra tions.
375. Teaching Apprentice Practicum. (1 to 4) Seminar, to be arranged. Preparation: apprentice personnel employment as a teaching assistant, associate, or fellow. Teaching apprenticeship under active guidance and supervision of a regular faculty member responsible for curriculum and instruction at the University.
82-241/2 Intermediate Spanish: Fall: 9 units Culture and Society or Spring: 9 units An integrated approach to the study of Spanish language and culture, consisting of grammar review, readings, and intensive practice in written and spoken Spanish. The reading material focuses on issues of permanent relevance and current interests in modern Spanish society, 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite: 82-142 or equivalent.
110 Nature of Mind Examination of philosophical issues raised by influential psychological views of the nature of the human mind. Prerequisite: 1, 3, or 4 or one course in psy chology. Three hours.
104A. Advanced Infantry Training . (3) Either half -year. (Credit A, B) tM Tu W Th F , 8, 11, 1. Assistant Professor Cora me Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course ; instruction in infantry weapons (37 mm.-3 in. trench mortar), company administration , military history, and national defense act. t Alternate Wednesdays only.
7 6 -4 5 0 S e n io r S e m in a r S p rin g : 9 u n its Prerequisites: 76-294 and 76-394. Lim ited to students in the BA in English. This is the capstone sem inar course for the BA In English. Topics will vary by semester. Consult the course descriptions provided by the Departm ent each sem ester for current offerings. Exam ple: S enior S em ina r: Im a g e Id e n tity C am era: A frican A m ericans an d Film This class presents you w ith the op portunity to analyze culture through discussing and writing about film . We will examine film texts as cultural phenomena drawing on scholarship and criticism in order to understand how ways of seeing make meaning along with narrative and storyboard. Our driving question concerns the way in which African Americans, blackness, and race get figured in American film . Far from conducting a survey of race in film , this class will focus on film s where camera work and content illum inate or address racial structures In American culture. We will pay particular attention to Ideologies surrounding the recurrent and seemingly unsoivable problems in American history. Screenings Include Birth o f a Nation, Micheaux's Within O ur Gates, Do the Right Thing, Daughters o f the Dust, and Monster's Bali. Secondary materials include excerpts from Laura Mulvey's Visual and O ther Pleasures, Fatima Rony's The Third Eye, Manthia Diawara's Black American Cinema, and bell hooks' Reel to Real.
GL-7 and GL-8. R e f e r e n c e B o o k s f o r A d u l t s . Study of the standard sources of information, including bibliographies and government publications. Closely co ordinated with Books for Adults. Three credits each semes ter.
E-308. P r o blem s in C om m ercial E n g in eer in g . An original investiga tion and report dealing with some phase of production, distribution, or finance, as related to a single industrial enterprise, or to a selected commodity or ser vice, or to a business problem of current interest. The approach may be either from the engineering or the commercial viewpoint, or both. The results are expected to be of sufficient interest to be worthy of publication. One copy must be placed in the files of the Department. Prereq., E-304, E -3 1 9 . 3 hrs. rec. or conf., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units. D r . G u il d .
1-516. H e a t in g . Ventilating systems, fans, blowers and ex pumps used in steam and hot water heating and water supply; per formances of fans as used in blower systems and ventilating systems of buildings. First semester; 3 hrs. lec., 6 hrs. shop, 9 units.
BIOL 301 - Cell Biology Advanced survey of cell organelles, their composition, origin, and the relationship between their sructure and function. Emphasis on recent literature and current controversies. Prerequisite: CHEM 142; Graduate sanding in Biology or Insructor permission. Cross-lised with: CLBI 301.
A-245 and A-246. Stage Lighting I. Illustrated lectures covering the elementary theory of light and electricity with emphasis on the planning of light plots and the aesthetic effect of stage lighting.
A-798. Community M usic. Inquiry into the social and musical values of community singing; review and analysis of notable community activities in various cities, towns and rural communities in the United States; especial at tention to the development in Pittsburgh under the Department of Special Schools and Extension Work of the Public Schools, the Civic Club of Alle gheny County, and local social settlements; an outline of work covering various fields of effort and the materials and methods that will be found valuable in their development.
491 through 499 DOCTOR'S THESIS RESEARCH Investigation of a research topic under the direction of an assigned staff member, culminating in an accept able thesis. Credit as arranged.
101A-101B. Advanced Readings in Modern Chinese. (4-4) (Formerly numbered 101A-101B-101C.) Lecture, two hours; discussion, two hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course 100C. Advanced readings and discussion for students planning to do advanced coursework or research on China. Topics from magazines, journals, and books related to humanities and social sciences.
BIOL 283 - Ecology-Evolution Journal Club Review and discussion of current research. Attendance required of Biology graduate sudents. Seniors in zoological research programs may enroll for 0 credits. Credits 0-1. Credits: 0.00
284 Public Policy and Programs for Elders. Demography of aging, social in stitutions and roles, policy and program im plementation, income maintenance, hous ing, health care, social services, transporta tion, legal and political issues. Prerequisite: 181 or permission. Three hours.
C-221 and C-222. E lem entary G e r m an. Beginning course covering gram mar; reading, writing and speaking of simple German. The emphasis of the grammar work is laid on the inflection of nouns, pronouns and adjectives; the principles of German word-order and sentence structure. Special attention is given to laving the foundation of a correct pronunciation. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
GKLT 381. Seminar. 3 Credits. Intensive study at the graduate level of Greek and Latin authors not read in the candidates undergraduate program.
193,194 College Honors 195 Special Topics 210 Airphoto Interpretation (2-3) Techniques in aerial photographic interpretation; principles of stereoscopic viewing and identification of airphoto features related to landform, vegetation, drainage, soil colortone, topography, and cultural features. Prerequisite: Senior or graduate standing. Three hours.
102 INCUBATION AND BROODING (2-4) General biology of embryonic de velopment and hatchability; fundamental principles underlying incubation practices; theory and practice of brooding chicks and other poultry. Prerequisite; 1; junior standing and departmental permission. Four hours.
196A. Introduction to Bioengineering and Cybernetics. (2) Lecture, two hours; outside study, six hours. Preparation: calculus. Strongly recommended for students with potential interest in bioengineering or cybernetics as a major. Introductory survey of topics in bioengineering and cybernetics disciplines. Lectures presented by faculty currently performing research in one of the areas; some sessions include laboratory tours.
8. ARGUMENTATION. An outline study of the elements of Argu mentation with class discussions and practice in brief writing.
CM196L. Biomedical Systems/Biocybernetics Research Laboratory. (4) (Formerly numbered C196L.) (Same as Neuroscience M174.) Lecture, one hour; laboratory, three hours; outside study, eight hours. Requisite: course M196B. Special laboratory techniques and experience in biocybernetics research. Laboratory instruments, their use, design, and/or modication for research in life sciences. Special research hardware, rmware, software. Use of simulation in experimental laboratory. Laboratory automation and safety. Comprehensive experiment design. Radioactive isotopes and kinetic studies. Experimental animals, controls.
76-438 Advanced Seminar in American Literary and Cultural Studies Fall or Spring: 9 units Topics will vary by semester. Consult the course descriptions provided by the Department each sem ester for current offerings. Exam ple: The American Century: One Hundred Years o f Literature and Culture This course tells the "secret history" of the 20th century, a forgotten history, a selection of untold stories. We will deal with the "big them es" of the 20th century, such as Modernlsm /PostModernism, Im m igration and M igration, Fordism and PostFordism, Colonialism and Post-Colonialism. But we will look at these big them es through the lens of displaced peoples, forgotten novels, and marginal lives. Cultural form s tha t we study include novels, radio, film , art, photography, and television. This class focuses on prim ary m aterials, but w ith the methods and lessons of a variety of historical and theoretical traditions. For the first half of the course on Modernism, Fordism, and Colonialism we will look at the novel Yonnondio by Tillie Olsen, Jacob Lawrence's paintings of black m igration, and Rosie the Riveter. We will also look at the first Madame Butterfly story and letters th a t black soldiers w rote home from the Philippines during the SpanishAmerlcan War. In the second half of the course on PostModernism, Post-Fordism and Post-Colonialism we will look at the World War II Zoot Suit riots, the theatre of Luis Valdez, the film Apocalypse Now and the diary that Eleanor Coppola kept during the making of that film , the novel Rivethead, and the novel about growing up Japanese in Hawaii, A ll I Asking For is m y Body. We will end the class by looking at some of the key episodes of Michael Moore's TV Nation. For the theoretical fram ework we will be reading selections from Michael Denning's The Cultural Front, and David Harvey's The Condition o f Post-Modernity.
C185B. Computational Linguistics II. (4) Requisite: course C185A/C209A. Extensions of basic language processing techniques to natural language processing. Recent models of syntactic, semantic, and discourse analysis, with particular attention to their linguistic sophistication and psychological plausibility.
M 17 ab. Chemistry of Foods. Lectures, laboratory work, and reports. The courses deal with the composition of foodstuffs, methods of analysis, and the detection of adulterants. It is closely correlated with the work in dietetics in the Department of Household Economics. 14 units; 1 lec.; 6 hrs. lab. for 2 quarters.
363 QUANTUM CHEMISTRY Applications of quantum mechanical techni ques to problems of chemical interest. Prerequisite: 263. Three hours.
C-4. A nalytic Geometry and Calculus. Multiple integra tion and integration by substitutions, by parts, and by partial frac tions with applications; space coordinates and certain surfaces; par tial differentiation, and series. Sophomore year. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
1-301. E l e c t r i c C o n s t r u c tio n . Elementary course in inside wiring; study of materials used, their properties and functions; cat alogue and shop nomenclature; typical circuits and rules governing installation. Shop work: Wiring exercises with knobs, molding, and conduits; simple methods of testing. Building construction, Sopho mores. First semester; 3 hrs shop, 3 units.
82-409 French Literature of the Offered intermittently: Nineteenth Century 9 units Readings in prose, poetry, and drama from romanticism through naturalism and symbolism. 3 hrs. rec. Prerequisite 82-302 or equivalent. Offered intermittently: 9 units
"254 "Environmental Quantilive Analysis (3-3) Chemistry and microbiology of-water quality management; diffusion, -equilibria, reaction kinetics, acids and bases, colloids, -en zymes, bacterial physiology, pollution indicator organisms; laboratories demonstrate -standard "techniques. Prerequisites: Chemistry! or 5, Math. 22. Four hours.
Mathematics III: Business Arithmetic A detailed study of the subject in its application to business of all kinds. Much time is devoted to drills on the fundamental operations for the purpose .of gaining speed, especially in addition and multiplication of fractions. The course is intended for those who expect to specialize as teachers of arithmetic in, higher grammar grades or in the intermediate school. Five hours. Five units.
224A-224B-224C. History and Philosophy of Social Welfare. Prerequisite: Doctoral status and/or consent of instructor. Analysis of long-term trends in welfare policies and programs in relation to political, economic, and other relevant factors, Philosophical foundations underlying social welfare theories, programs, and methods will be explored and values, assumptions, and attitudes historically affecting social welfare examined.
52 LATIN LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Lectures on the development of Latin literature and on the principal Latin authors, with attention to the relation of Latin literature to Greek and English literature. Readings in standard translations from the major authors. No knowledge of Latin required. Prerequisite: junior standing. Three hours. Mr. Lane.
291D. Econometrics of Asset Prices. (4) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 291A. Designed for graduate students. Applications of time-series methods to analysis of asset prices: general method of moments, vector autoregressions, and maximum likelihood estimation. Restrictions imposed by no-arbitrage on time series of returns. Empirical implications of macroeconomic models for asset prices. Response of asset prices to shocks. Incomplete markets.
E-81 and E-82. P hysics (Vocational). For students in the non-degree courses. Fundamental principles useful for the work in the shops. Short Coal Mining, first year, first and second semesters. M r. M ichener.
359 MARKETING POLICY Concepts from quantitative methods, econom ics and the behavioral sciences are applied to marketing management. Included for consideration are: marketing opportunities, organizing for marketing, plan ning the marketing program and the control of marketing effort. Case book method. Prerequisite: MBA standing. Three hours.
181. Introduction to Formal Languages and Automata Theory. (4) Lecture, four hours; discussion, two hours; outside study, six hours. Requisite: Mathematics 61. Designed for junior/senior Computer Science majors. Grammars, automata, and languages. Finite-state languages and nite-state automata. Context-free languages and pushdown story automata. Unrestricted rewriting systems, recursively enumerable and recursive languages, and Turing machines. Closure properties, pumping lemmas, and decision algorithms. Introduction to computability.
598. M.S. Thesis Research and Writing. (2 to 12) Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation of research data and writing of M.S. thesis.
M-409 and M-410. Sociology I. Biological, physical, and psychological factors in the social life; evolution of society, and of certain important social institutions; theories of social progress; selected modern social problems. Re quired for Social Work. Sophomore year, first semester; 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units.
25 6 AMERICAN BUSINESS HISTORY Evolution of firms and industries from relatively small and undifferentiated establishments to large, highly complex institutions of the present day. Selected studies in textiles, machinery, transpor tation, steel, coal, electric machinery, insurance, communication, retail, and others. The roles of Federal and state governments and of legislation. Develop ments in American management. Prerequisite: 143 or consent of instructor. Three hours.
391, 392, 393, 394 MASTER'S THESIS RESEARCH Investigation of a re search topic under the direction of an assigned staff member, culminating in an acceptable thesis. Credit as arranged.
167A . Learning Disorders . (2) I, II. Mr. Coleman, An examination of the psychological factors underlying the understanding , diagnosis and treatment of reading and other learning disorders in children, adolescents and young adults.
130 HOME FURNISHING I (1-4) Application of design fundamentals to the problems involved in furnishing the home. Prerequisite: 21. Three hours. Miss Caldwell and Miss Newton.
205 PATHOGENIC BACTERIOLOGY Studies of major species of patho genic bacteria with emphasis on mechanisms of disease production, epidemi ology, control measures, and diagnosis. Designed for advanced under graduate or graduate students interested in phenomenon of parasitism. Pre requisite: permission of the instructor. Three hours.
E-643 and E-644. Elementary Mine Engineering. Mine haulage equip ment and problems; surface and underground layouts; coal storage; mine tele phones and signals; reinforced concrete; engines and boilers; pumps, compres sors and problems; hoisting machinery and problems; conveyors; overhead trams; loading machines; mine fires and explosions; principles of coal wash ing. First semester, three hours laboratory demonstration in the use of mining equipment; rock excavation; mine timbering; electric and flame safety lamp testing; gas testing; experiments in mine ventilation; coal sampling. Report on a coal mine. Second semester bi-monthly inspection trips to mines in the Pitts burgh district and to the Experimental Mine for explosives and mine explosion demonstrations. Bi-monthly lectures given by mine officials and engineers, and by the staff members, U. S. Bureau of Mines. Prereq., E-646.
244 MODERN IRISH LITERATURE A study of Irish literature from 1890 to the present with emphasis on Yeats and Joyce. Prerequisite: 25, 26 or 27, 28. Three hours
82-542 Special Topics: Spanish Spring: Variable units Restricted to language majors who wish to go beyond the regular offering in Spanish. Group or individual study in a subject area approved by the instructor. Prerequisite: Consent of the instructor and a 400-level course.
G107 GERMAN LITERATURE: 1850-1900. Three hours. I Reading in class of plays, beginning with dramas of Hebbel, illus trating the development of the realistic trend which burst forth in Naturalism; study of Impressionism and Neo-romanticism; outside read ing of typical short stories and novels. (Offered in alternate years, 1952-53.) Prerequisite: 101-102.
4A. Intermediate Modern Chinese for Advanced Students. (4) Lecture, two hours; discussion, three hours; outside study, seven hours. Enforced requisite: course 2A. Designed for students who already have certain listening and speaking skills in Mandarin or other Chinese dialects at intermediate levels. Training in all four basic language skills (speaking, listening, reading, and writing). Students who complete courses 4A and 5A fulll second year of foreign language requirement.
123 Collective Bargaining and Conflict Resolution Focuses on conflict and cooperation between employers and unions. Topics include the importance of ideology, the causes of strikes and other forms of industrial conflict, the union con tract, and techniques for resolving conflict. Prerequisite: 120. Three hours.
116,117 ELECTRIC MACHINES (3-3) A study of the principal types of rotating ma chinery from the physical and mathematical standpoint. Prerequisite: electrical engineering 125. Four hours.
241 Tropical Plant Systematica Principles and meth ods of angiosperm phylogeny. Recent systematic and evolu tionary research on flowering plants; survey of tropical flower ing plant families. Student presentations on recent research. Prerequisite: 109. Four hours.
Nature Study II: Bblogkal Phase This course* includes presentation of the pedagogical, or child-study, basis for the subject , review of the great facts of animal and plant life which must be kept in mind-in teaching , and a discussion of the course in actual operation in the Training School. In the Training School nature study runs through the first six years, making the child familiar with most of the common animals and plants found in this locality . Gardens , so subdivided that each child has an, individual garden (3 by 5 feet), and a full equipment of all kinds of garden tools are provided. Practical results ire .'aimed at throughout . A complete study of the school ' environment is undertaken . The practical character of the work may be seen from the subjoined partial list of subject-matter : making, stocking ,-and caring for marine and fresh-water aquaria; life-histories and care of such animals as toads and salamanders; life-histories of common insects ,. particularly the harmful ones , which are studied alive
301 READINGS IN FAMILY ECONOMICS Critical survey of the literature and recent research in family economics. Three or four hours.
6. EnglishPractical English Composition ; Themes ; Read ing; Spelling; Public Speaking. Three hours,
561. Surveying The course covers the use, care and adjust ment of the compass, transit and level. The class room work is given with the aid of a text-book and the methods employed in land and topographical surveys are discussed as fully as the time available permits. Numerous problems and drawing room exer cises are supplemented by practice in the field.
1-509. H e a t in g R e q u ir e m e n ts . Calculating amount of heat required for different types of buildings; theory and design of warm air, steam, vapor and warm water systems of heating; con densation pumps; electric heaters; ventilation requirements; pumps and traps; connection of radiators with steam, using various con nections and valves; condensation pumps, traps and tanks, valves and air eliminators. Heating and Ventilating students take special fix tures and installation for schools, factories, office buildings, churches; temperature controls, regulation installing and testing return and
E-12Q. P h y sic a l C h em ist r y (L a bo ra to ry). M easurem ent of equili brium in gaseous system s. C onductance m easurem ents for determ ination of dissociation con stan ts; titratio n by conductance. D istribution m easurem ents. V elocity of chem ical reactions in solutions; hydrolysis of esters, the polariscope and velocity of inversion of cane sugar. Prereq., E -1 1 8 . C hem istry and Chem ical Engineering. 3 hrs. lab., 3 units. D r . S e l t z .
E-307. E lem e n t s o f C om m ercial E n g in eer in g . Analytical study of selected problems of engineering and management, intended to familiarize the student with the work of the commercial engineer, and to demonstrate efficient methods. Prereq. (or with) C-352. 2 hrs. rec., 4 hrs. prep., 6 units. D r . G u il d .
167 Auditing Independent and internal auditing. Topics include standards, ethics and legal responsibilities of the pro fession, financial statements, audit concepts and techniques, and the audit option. Prerequisite: 166. Three hours.
166, 167 SPECIAL PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION Individual investigation of a problem selected to meet special needs of students. Prerequi site: 165. Two or three hours.
133. Educational Diagnosis . (2) IL (Credit B) M, 4, 5. Prerequisite : Education 132. Associate Professor WILLIAMS The use of standard tests and elementary statistical technique in problems of school, class and individual diagnosis . Intended especially for teachers of experience.
575. Hydraulic M otors A course dealing with the principles involved in the flow of water over vanes and through rotating pipes. The theoretical equations for power, velocity, etc., are derived, and a study made of the ordinary forms of hydraulic motors, an(7 centrifugal pumps, their construction, operation, etc.
165 Accounting Theory Study of underlying concepts, principles, and structure of accounting. Topics covered include financial accounting standards, opinions of the APB, profes sional literature, and current applications. Prerequisite: 162. Three hours.
M 16 ab. Physiological Chemistry. The course is a general introduction to the study of chemical processes in metabolism and the methods of analysis. 14 units; 1 lec.; 6 hrs. lab. for 2 quarters.
13-14 PRINCIPLES OF ACCOUNTING (2-4) Problems of financial control of business, with, laboratory practice. Prerequisite: sophomore standing. Four hours. Messrs
281B. International Finance. (4) Lecture, three hours. Theory and evidence on balance of payments, exchange rate determination, international transmission of ination and business cycles, macroeconomic policy in open economies, alternative monetary systems.
M-412. O ccupational W ork. Handwork of various kinds, including paper-box furniture, wooden toys, scrapbook making. Required for Social Work. Sophomore year, second semester; 1 hr. rec., 4 hrs. lab., 1 hr. prep., 6 units.
C-270. P rinciples of Education. Study of curriculum from the view point of historical development; sociological objections; psychological pro cesses; practical methods. Second semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
GL-3 an d GL-4. B o o k s f o r A d u l t s . An evaluation of books in each of the fields of knowledge; the principles of selecting books and other printed materials for library purchase and for use by readers; the use of biblio graphic aids to selection; the writing of annotations; writ ten and oral book reviewing. Three credits each semester.
E-305. B u sin ess C om m unication. (L e t t e r s and R epo r t s). The class room work of the course divides into two parts. In the first are studied the principles underlying the effective use of the English language in business letters; the various kinds of letters are studied by types, with attention to the particular business problems involved, as well as the most acceptable ways of writing the letters. In the second part of the course, business reports of several kinds are analyzed, with attention to the collection of material for a report, its analysis and arrangement for presentation; other forms of internal communica tion. The laboratory, which may be taken separately, is intended to provide training in the use of the typewriter. Attention is given to writing by touch, the development of speed with accuracy, and practice in copying. All letters and reports submitted in the course must be typed, and the machines in the laboratory are available to the students in the course for this purpose. Prereq., C-109, C-110. 2 hrs. rec., 3 hrs. lab., 4 hrs. prep., 9 units. D r . G u il d , M r . T r e x l e r .
Ear Training I, 11, III The object of this course is to train the ear, to strengthen the musical memory, and to assist students to write from dictation. Each two hours. One unit.
201 OPERATING SYSTEMS An introduction to the principle components and algorithms involved in operating systems design and implementation. Memory, processor, device and file management techniques are presented and compared. Protection and security schemes are examined for both memory and file organizations. Synchronization primitives are discussed. Prerequisite: 222. Three credits. Staff.
153. Art, Politics, and Nationalism in Modern Armenian Literature. (4) Readings in English. Examination of role of literature in modern Armenian society in service to a cause or causes, as propaganda for various ideologies, as art for arts sake, etc. Exploration of contrasting aesthetics implicit in these differing interpretations. Students may work on texts in original language for extra credit.
105 History of Medieval Philosophy Study of works of such major philosophical figures as Augustine, Anselm, Abelard, Aquinas, Duns Scotus, and Wiltiam of Ockham. Pre requisite: 101 is recommended. Three hours.
323 PRINCIPLES AND ELEMENTS OF BIOMEDICAL INSTRUMENTA TION This course is designed for the biologically trained researcher to provide a firm understanding of instrument methodology. Topics include basic electrophysics; transducers; the concepts and manipulation of bioelectric and other signals; physiological instrument systems. A laboratory supports these theore tical ideas. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. Five hours.
127. Syntactic Typology and Universals. (4) Requisite: course 20. Study of essential similarities and differences among languages in grammatical devices they use to signal the following kinds of concepts: relations between nouns and verbs (case and word order), negation, comparison, existence/location/possession, causation, interrogation, reexivization, relativization, attribution (adjectives), time (tense and aspect), and backgrounding (subordination). Data from a range of languages presented and analyzed.
33, 34 MEDIEVAL EUROPE Europe from the late Roman Empire to the Renaissance, with emphasis on political and cultural developments.
66. Millinery . (2) Either half -year . (Credit B) Miss LYNCH Tu Th, 1-3. Required of vocational students , elective for others. Prerequisite . Art 2A and Home Economics 1A or equivalent. Study . of trade methods and markets for millinery supplies ; execution of designs illustrating problems involved in class demonstration in laboratory teaching , and in the direction of club projects.
170. M a so n r y. T his subject includes a study of foundations in different soils, and descriptions of various classes of masonry and their uses in arches, dams, footings, buildings, bridge abutments and piers, retaining walls and culverts. The use of reinforced con crete is given special prominence in this course. In addition to the class-room w ork a considerable amount of time is devoted to the designing and preparation of plans for various structures of masonry.
295, 296 Advanced Special Topics Advanced courses or seminars on topics beyond the scope of existing de partmental offerings.
281, 282 Seminar Presentation and discussion of ad vanced problems in sociological analysis. Prerequisites: Twelve hours of sociology, permission of instructor. Three hours.
271 INDUSTRIAL MATERIALS I (3-0) Fundamentals of ferrous and nonferrous physical metallurgy, and non-metallic materials. The correlation of the microscopic structure and physical properties of metals, alloys and plastics with their heat treatments and uses. Prerequisite: chemistry 2; physics 16. Some laboratory work required. Three hours.
7, 8 History of the U.S. Survey from the pre-Revolutionary period to the present. Three hours.
254 SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT AND LABOR Development of scientific management; reactions and relationship of organized labor to it. Long-range effects of scientific management on the structure and policies of industry and organized labor. Prerequisite: 143. Three hours
54-239,240 Fall: 4 -6 units Period Style and Form Spring: 4 -6 units
E-145. C h em istry O p tion . Properly qualified students m ay undertake research problems under the direction of members of the staff. Prereq., con sent of the instructor. 9 to 15 units per semester, one or two semesters.
C-109 and C-110. E nglish I. English composition; weekly themes; con ferences; study of the important types of literature. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
E-57. A dvanced Electricity and M agnetism. Mathematical theory of electricity and magnetism following one of the standard texts. Prereq., C-5, E-43. Physics, Senior year, first semester.
201 Administration of Athletic Programs. Background for effective administration of the athletic program of schools. Including scheduling, budgeting, management, equip ment, policy, public relations, and educa tion justification. Prerequisites: Twelve hours of education and psychology. Three hours.
40. Shop Work. (1). (Credit B) Mr. Psiratra Forging and oxy-acetylene welding.
1-507 and 1-508. E s tim a tin g . Methods of taking material from blue prints of heating and ventilating installations. Prints, methods and prices used the same as commercial theory. First semester; 3 hrs., 3 units. Second semester; 6 hrs., 6 units.
243 Mass Media in Modern Society Intensive exami nation of selected topics in the structure of media organizations and their relationships to and impacts upon the major institu tions and publics of contemporary society. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
4. English Elementary English Composition; Spelling; Reading. Four hours,
GS498 Thesis Research First and second semester, units to be assigned Only graduate students accepted as candidates for the doctorate may enroll.
A-777 and A-778. M e t h o d s o f D e v e l o p i n g M u s ic a l A p p r e c i a t i o n . The development of appreciation in the elementary school necessitates particu lar attention to such elements of interest and beauty as appeal to the natural interests and suit the normal abilities of the child. The purpose of this course is to determine these elements, to stress methods designed to lead the childs attention to them as heard in the music itself, and to develop judgment in choice of material.
122 Personnel Management includes the study of job analysis, recruitment, selection, training and employee devel opment, health and safety, compensation, performance apprai sal, and other employee-related topics. Prerequisite: 120. Three hours.
Handwork I Introduction to materials and processes used in the elementary school. Five hours. Three units.
272 MECHANICAL BEHAVIOR OF MATERIALS (3-0) Elastic and plastic behavior of single crystals and polycrystals; dislocations; approximate plastic analysis; anistropic materials; hardness; residual stress; brittle, transitional and ductile fractures; fatigue; damping; creep and surface phenomena. Prerequisite: 271. Three hours.
1-620. Carpentry. The principles of framing as applied to houses, barns and bridges; use of the steel square; types of buildingballoon frame, brick, brick veneer, braced fram e; the construction of door-frames, doors, stairs, and general details; relationship of the different building trades taught by means of models built to scale, and used in public and rural schools; lectures on building materials! and processes, and the teaching of carpentry in the public schools. Drawing of plans and details for modern dwelling. Each student is
200. Proseminar: Indo-European Studies. (2) Seminar, two hours every other week. Required of graduate Indo-European studies students during first year. Introduction to graduate-level research in IndoEuropean studies.
E-132 and E-133. C h em ic a l E n g in eer in g Sem in a r. Students present reports on original journal articles that record important advances in this field. Prereq., E-112, E-118. 1 hr. rec., 1 unit. D r . J a m es, D r . B e r l , M r . W e it z .
313 QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS FOR MANAGEMENT Development of concepts and tools for the analysis and effective communication of statistical in formation for managerial and related business operations. Decision making and program evaluation. Methods of organizing data, modelling relationships, alter native strategies. Computer programming instruction. Prerequisite: Graduate standing. Previous employment or educational experience in data analysis is recommended. Three hours. Tashman
203 HOME MANAGEMENT PROBLEMS Application of economic and socio logical principles to some problems of the home and family. Prerequisite: 101, Psychology 1. Three hours.
GS499 Final Public Oral Examination for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy
115 INTRODUCTION TO HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION Homemaking edu cation in relation to philosophy, professional contacts, and growth toward teacher competencies. Observation of secondary school programs, place of homemaking in general education. Prerequisite: junior standing. Two hours.
180A- 180B. Administration of Physical Education and Community Recreation . (2-2) Yr . , Mist 1ooper Prerequisite : senior standing.
C-229 and C-230. I ntermediate Scientific G er m an. Rapid grammar re view; study of German word-formation; special drill in the participial and ad jective construction, this being considered one of the main difficulties of scien tific German; elementary scientific reading; acquisition of an elementary scien tific vocabulary. Prereq., C-221 and C-222, or the equivalent. First and second semesters; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
Reading I This is the basal course in reading. It deals with the subject matter of reading courses in the elementary schools ; methods of presentation; .the reading of literature used in the intermediate and grammar grades; the place and use of phonetics and dramatization. Observation lessons, conferences and criticisms are given in connection with the teaching of reading, literature and phonetics in the Training School. ' Five hours. Five units.
88. Lower Division Seminar: Special Topics in Epidemiology. (4) Seminar, three hours; outside study, nine hours. Preparation: satisfaction of Subject A requirement. Variable topics seminar which examines specic issues or problems and ways that professionals in epidemiology approach study of them. Students dene, prepare, and present their own research projects with guidance of a professional school faculty member.
A-247 and A-248. Stage Lighting II. Advanced problems in stage lighting. Enrollment with per mission of the instructor.
491 DOCTORAL DISSERTATION RESEARCH Credit as arranged.
168 Cost Accounting Accounting tor inventory valua tion and income determination, non-routine decisions, policy making and long-range planning. Prerequisites: 61, junior standing. Three hours.
196A. Honors Essay. (4) Preparation: 3.5 gradepoint average. Requisite: course 165A/200A or 165B/ 200B (may be taken concurrently). Recommended: completion of both courses 165A and 165B (or 200A and 200B) before or during term in which course 196A is taken. Draft of extended piece of writing on a linguistic topic selected by the student is prepared under supervision of a faculty member.
103A. Advanced Infantry Training. (8) Either half-year. (Credit A, B) tM Tu W Th F, 8, 11, 1. Assistant Professors Owns, STA= Instruction and practice in the duties of officers in connection with the basic course; instruction in military sketching, military field engineering , military law, and rules of land warfare.
M176B. Structure of Japanese II. (4) (Same as Japanese CM123.) Lecture, three hours. Preparation: two or more years of Japanese language study. Survey of Japanese language at three different levels of organization: (1) word level word class, verbal morphology and semantics; (2) clause/sentence level tense, aspect, modality; (3) discourse level point of view, ellipsis, topicalization.
2. Studies in Regional Geography . (3) Either half -year . (Credit A, B) Assistant Professor McCr. s *A*r, Miss BAUGH, M r. MsasHALL Prerequisite :. Geography 1. A study of selected . regions , with wide application of the principles of human geography and systematic map studies.
Music II Study of material. Chorus conducting. Three hours. Two units.
214 Delinquency Analysis of the nature and types of juvenile behavior that violates law, the mechanisms for defin ing such behaviors as delinquent and their causes and conse quences. Prerequisite: Six hours of sociology. Three hours.
328 Introduction to Medicinal Chemistry Important classes of drugs are surveyed. Emphasis on relationships be tween physicochemical properties and pharmacologic activity; synthetic aspects considered. Prerequisites: Chemistry 131-132. Open to undergraduates with permission of instructor. Three hours.
C-3. A nalytic Geometry and C a lc u lu s. Parametric equa tions, polar coordinates; empirical equations; differentiation with applications, and integration by standard formulae with applications. Prereq., C-l and C-2. Sophomore year. First semester; 3 hrs. rec., 6 hrs. prep., 9 units.
255 HISTORIANS OF THE EMPIRE Augustus, Res Gestae; Tacitus, Annals, I-IV; selections from Suetonius and Ammianus Marcellinus. Prerequisite: 203, 204 or concurrent enrollment. Three hours.
1-782. Pattern S hop P ractice. Advanced pattern shop practice; job analysis including calculation as to board feet of lumber needed and sequence of operations, arrangem ent of equipm ent. Emphasis on value of the tim e element in the production of patterns. M ethods of planning and building up patterns. M ethods of checking, m arking and storing patterns. Thorough drill in nom enclature of processes, tools and equipment.
EDHE 211. Community Health Ed. 3 Credits. Government and voluntary agencies sociological, historical, educational, environmental, and medical influences. Role of community health educator in these influences and major American health concerns. Prerequisite: EDHE 046 or equivalent.
240. Organization and Administration of Education . (2) II.
199. Special Studies. (2 to 8) Tutorial, to be arranged.
"256 Water-Renovation Processes - Biological-{2-3) Design theory of biological processes for treating waters and infection; pilot plant experimentation. Prerequisites: 150, 151 or graduate standing. Threehours. Morris. 257 Analysis of "Aquatic Systems (3-0) Quantitative study of biological, chemical, and physical phenomena In lakes, streams, estuaries, and groundwater; mathematical modeling applied to management of water quality. Prerequi sites: 150fMath. 271 or 124 or permission of instructor. Three hours.
79-252 Seminar on the History of American Radicalism Units 12 The reading and discussion of interpretive works dealing with the place of radicalism in American history. Limited to 10-12 students, preference given to upperclass history majors. By permission of the instructor.
274 Methods of Data Gathering in Social Research Techniques for generating and using observational, interview, survey, and existing source data to test systematically sociological ideas; includes design, sampling, measurement, and ethical issues. Prerequisite: 100 or equivalent with permis sion of instructor. Three hours.
